(i) The Secretary of a Military Department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a 
unit of the Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC)—-in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 654 
and other applicable Federal laws—-at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution); 
(ii) Any student at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution) from enrolling in a 
unit of the Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education. 
(iii) The Secretary of a Military Department or Secretary of Homeland Security from gaining 
access to campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on campuses, for 
purposes of military recruiting in a manner that is at least equal in quality and scope to the access 
to campuses and to students that is provided to any other employer; or 
(iv) Access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to the names of students 
(who are 17 years of age or older and enrolled at that institution or any sub-element of that 
institution); their addresses, telephone listings, dates and places of birth, levels of education, 
academic majors, and degrees received; and the most recent educational institutions in which 
they were enrolled. 
(b) If you are determined, using the procedures in 32 CFR part 216, to be such an institution of 
higher education during the period of performance of this award, we: 
(i) Will cease all payments to you of DoD funds under this award and all other DoD grants 
and cooperative agreements; and 
(ii) May suspend or terminate those awards unilaterally for material failure to comply with 
the award terms and conditions. 
(2) Contracts: Each contract awarded under this announcement to an institution of higher 
education shall include the following clause: DFARS 252.209-7005, Military Recruiting on 
Campus. 
v. SUBCONTRACTING: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: N/A 
(2) Contracts: Pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. § 637(d)), it is the 
policy of the Government to enable small business and small disadvantaged business (SDB) 
concerns to be considered fairly as subcontractors. All other than U.S. small businesses 
proposing contracts expected to exceed $700,000 and that have subcontracting possibilities 
are required to submit a subcontracting plan IAW FAR 19.702(a), and shall do so with their 
proposal. 
Subcontracting plans are determined to be acceptable or unacceptable based on the criteria 
established at FAR 19.705-4, DFARS 219.705-4, and AFARS 5119.705-4. Goals are established 
on an individual contract basis and should result in realistic, challenging and attainable goals that, 
106
to the greatest extent possible, maximize small business participation in subcontracting for Small 
Business, SDB, Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB), Economically-Disadvantaged 
Woman-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB), Service-Disabled 
Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB), Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB), and 
Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Small Business consistent with applicants’ 
make-or-buy policy, the pool of and availability of qualified and capable small business 
subcontractors, their performance on subcontracts, and existing relationships with suppliers. 
Subcontracting goals should result in efficient contract performance in terms of cost, schedule, 
and performance and should not result in increased costs to the government or undue 
administrative burden to the prime contractor. For reference, DoD Small Business 
Subcontracting Goals may be found at: 
http://www.acq.osd.mil/osbp/statistics/sbProgramGoals.shtml. 
vi. EXPORT CONTROL LAWS: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: N/A 
(2) Contracts: Applicants should be aware of current export control laws and are responsible for 
ensuring compliance with all International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR) (22 CFR 120 
et. Seq.) requirements, as applicable. In some cases, developmental items funded by the DoD 
are now included on the United States Munition List (USML) and are therefore subject to 
ITAR jurisdiction. Applicants should address in their proposals whether ITAR restrictions 
apply or do not apply, such as in the case when research products would have both civil and 
military application, to the work they are proposing to perform for the DoD. The USML is 
available online at http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt22.1.121. Additional 
information regarding the President's Export Control Reform Initiative can be found at 
http://export.gov/ecr/index.asp. 
vii. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in 
Subpart B of 2 CFR part 26, which is the DoD implementation of 41 U.S.C. chapter 81, 
“Drug Free Workplace.” 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award. 
viii. DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must comply with requirements regarding debarment 
and suspension in Subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125. This 
includes requirements concerning the recipient’s principals under an award, as well as 
requirements concerning the recipient’s procurement transactions and sub-awards that are 
implemented in DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions PROC 
Articles I through III and SUB Article II. 
107
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award. 
ix. REPORTING SUBAWARDS AND EXECUTIVE 
COMPENSATION: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must report information about sub-awards and 
executive compensation as specified in the award term in Appendix A to 2 CFR part 170, 
“Reporting sub-award and executive compensation information,” modified as follows: 
(a) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for 
reporting sub-award information, the Web site “http://www.fsrs.gov” cited in paragraphs a.2.i. 
and a.3 of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “http://www.fsrs.gov or successor OMB
designated Web site for reporting sub-award information”; 
(b) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for 
reporting executive compensation information, the Web site “http://www.sam.gov” cited in 
paragraph b.2.i. of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “https://www.sam.gov or 
successor OMB-designated Web site for reporting information on total compensation”; and (c) 
The reference to “Sec. ___.210 of the attachment to OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, 
Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations” in paragraph e.3.ii of the award term is 
replaced by “2 CFR 200.330, as implemented in DoD Research and Development General Terms 
and Conditions SUB Article I of this award.” 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award. 
3. Reporting
a. Additional reports including number and types will be specified in the award document, 
but will include as a minimum monthly financial status reports. The reports shall be prepared 
and submitted in accordance with the procedures contained in the award document and mutually 
agreed upon before award. Reports and briefing material will also be required as appropriate to 
document progress in accomplishing program metrics. A final report that summarizes the 
project and tasks will be required at the conclusion of the performance period for the award. 
b. ARMY MANPOWER CONTRACTOR REPORTING: For Contracts Only. The Office 
of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) operates and maintains a 
secure Army data collection site where the contractor will report ALL contractor manpower 
(including subcontractor6 manpower) required for performance of this contract. The contractor 
is required to completely fill in all the information in the format using the following web 
address: https://cmra.army.mil/. The required information includes: 
(1) Contracting Office, Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer’s Technical 
Representative; 
(2) Contract number, including task and delivery order number; 
(3) Beginning and ending dates covered by reporting period; 
108
(4) Contractor name, address, phone number, email address, identity of contractor employee 
entering data; 
(5) Estimated direct labor hours (including sub-contractors); 
(6) Estimated direct labor dollars paid this reporting period (including sub-contractors); 
(7) Total payments (including sub-contractors); 
(8) Predominate Federal Service Code (FSC) reflecting services provided by contractor (and 
separate predominant FSC for each sub-contractor if different); 
(9) Estimated data collection cost; 
(10) Organizational title associated with the Unit Identification Code (UIC) for the Army 
Requiring Activity (the Army Requiring Activity is responsible for providing the contractor 
with its UIC for the purposes of reporting this information); 
(11) Locations where contractor and sub-contractors perform the work (specified by zip code in 
the United States and nearest city, country, when in an overseas location, using standardized 
nomenclature provided on website); 
(12) Presence of deployment or contingency contract language; and 
(13) Number of contractor and sub-contractor employees deployed in theater this reporting 
period (by country). 
As part of its submission, the contractor will also provide the estimated total cost (if any) 
incurred to comply with this reporting requirement. Reporting period will be the period of 
performance not to exceed 12 months ending 30 September of each government FY and must be 
reported by 31 October of each calendar year. Contractors may use a direct XML data transfer to 
the database server or fill in the fields on the website. The XML direct transfer is a format for 
transferring files from a contractor’s systems to the secure web site without the need for separate 
data entries for each required data element at the web site. The specific formats for the XML 
direct transfer may be downloaded from the web site. 
c. If the total Federal share exceeds $500,000 on any Federal award under a notice of funding 
opportunity, the post-award reporting requirements reflected in Appendix XII to 2 CFR 200 will 
be included in the award document. This requirement also applies to modifications of awards 
that: 1) increase the scope of the award, 2) are issued on or after January 1, 2016, and 3) increase 
the federal share of the award’s total value to an amount that exceeds $500,000. 
(End of Section) 
G. Agency Contacts 
1. Questions of a technical or programmatic nature shall be directed to the TPOC for each 
research area of interest. The TPOC information may be found in the description of each 
research area of interest in Section II.A of this BAA. 
2. Questions of a business or administrative nature are to be directed to the following email: 
109
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil
3. Comments or questions submitted should be concise and to the point, eliminating any 
unnecessary verbiage. In addition, the relevant part and paragraph of the announcement 
should be referenced. 
4. Requests to withdraw a proposal shall be directed to usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. 
(End of Section) 
H. Other Information 
Below are two separate outlines of the informational requirements for a sample cost proposal. 
Section H.1 is for a procurement contract and Section H.2 is for grants and cooperative 
agreements. 
1. CONTRACT Proposals 
Cost Proposal – {No Page Limit}
Cover sheet to include: 
1 BAA number 
2 Technical area 
3 Lead organization submitting proposal 
4 Type of business, selected among the following categories: “LARGE BUSINESS”, 
“SDB”, “OTHER SMALL BUSINESS”, “HBCU”, “MI”, “OTHER EDUCATIONAL”, 
OR “OTHER NONPROFIT” 
5 Contractor’s reference number (if any) 
6 Other team members (if applicable) and type of business for each 
7 Proposal title 
8 TPOC to include: salutation, last name, first name, street address, city, state, zip code, 
telephone, fax (if available), electronic mail (if available) 
9 Administrative point of contact to include: salutation, last name, first name, street address, 
city, state, zip code, telephone, fax (if available), and electronic mail (if available) 
10 Award instrument requested: cost plus fixed fee (CPFF), cost-contract—no fee, cost 
sharing contract – no fee, or other type of procurement contract (specify) 
11 Place(s) and period(s) of performance 
12 Total proposed cost separated by basic award and option(s) (if any) 
13 Name, address, and telephone number of the proposer’s cognizant Defense Contract 
Management Agency (DCMA) administration office (if known) 
110
14 Name, address, and telephone number of the proposer’s cognizant Defense Contract Audit 
Agency (DCAA) audit office (if known) 
15 Date proposal was prepared 
16 DUNS number 
17 TIN number 
18 CAGE code 
19 Subcontractor information 
20 Proposal validity period 
21 Any Forward Pricing Rate Agreement, other such approved rate information, or such other 
documentation that may assist in expediting negotiations (if available) 
a. Reasoning for Submitting a Strong Cost Proposal
The ultimate responsibility of the Contracting Officer is to ensure that all prices offered in a 
proposal are fair and reasonable before contract award. To establish the reasonableness of the 
offered prices, the Contracting Officer may ask the applicant to provide supporting 
documentation that assists in this determination. The applicant’s ability to be responsive to the 
Contracting Officer’s requests can expedite contract award. As specified in Section 808 of 
Public Law 105-261, an applicant who does not comply with a requirement to submit 
information for a contract or subcontract in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of FAR 15.403-3 
may be ineligible for award. 
b. DCAA-Accepted Accounting System
i. Before a cost-type contract can be awarded, the Contracting Officer must confirm that the 
applicant has a DCAA-accepted accounting system in place for accumulating and billing costs 
under Government contracts [FAR 53.209-1(f)]. If the applicant has DCAA correspondence, 
which documents the acceptance of its accounting system, this should be provided to the 
Contracting Officer (i.e. attached or referenced in the proposal). Otherwise, the Contracting 
Officer will submit an inquiry directly to the appropriate DCAA office and request a review of 
the applicant’s accounting system. 
ii. If an applicant does not have a DCAA-accepted accounting system in place, the DCAA 
review process can take several months depending upon the availability of the DCAA auditors 
and the applicant’s internal processes. This will delay contract award. 
iii. For more information about cost proposals and accounting standards, view the link titled 
“Information for Contractors” on the main menu of the DCAA website. 
c. Field Pricing Assistance
During the pre-award cost audit process, the Contracting Officer may solicit support from DCAA 
to determine commerciality and price reasonableness of the proposal [FAR 15.404-2]. Any 
111
proprietary information or reports obtained from DCAA field audits will be appropriately 
identified and protected within the Government. 
d. Sample Cost Proposal – “Piece by Piece”
To help guide applicant s through the pre-award cost audit process, a sample cost proposal is 
detailed below. This sample allows the applicant to see exactly what the Government is looking 
for so that all cost and pricing back-up data can be provided to the Government in the first cost 
proposal submission. Review each cost element within the proposal, and take note of the types 
of documentation that the Contracting Officer will require from the applicant. 
i. Direct Labor: The first cost element included in the cost proposal is Direct Labor. Each 
proposed employee must be listed by name and labor category. 
Below is the Direct Labor as proposed by our sample applicant: 
DIRECT LABOR YEAR 1 YEAR 2 
Employee 
Name 
Labor 
Category 
Direct 
Hourly 
Rate 
Hours Total Direct 
Labor 
Direct 
Hourly 
Rate 
Hours Total Direct 
Labor 
Andy 
Smith 
Program 
Manager 
$55.00 720.00 $39,600.00 $56.65 720.00 $40,788.00 
Bryan 
Andrews 
Senior 
Engineer 
$40.00 672.00 $26,880.00 $41.20 672.00 $27,686.40 
Cindy 
Thomas 
Principal 
Engineer 
$50.00 512.00 $25,600.00 $51.50 512.00 $26,368.00 
David 
Porter 
Entry Level 
Engineer 
$10.00 400.00 $4,000.00 $10.30 400.00 $4,120.00 
Edward 
Bean 
Project 
Administrator 
$25.00 48.00 $1,200.00 $25.75 48.00 $1,236.00 
Subtotal 
Direct 
Labor (DL) 
$97,280.00 $100,198.40
(1) For this cost element, the Contracting Officer requires the applicant to provide adequate 
documentation in order to determine that the labor rate for each employee/labor category is fair 
and reasonable. The documentation must explain how these labor rates were derived. For 
example, if the rates are DCAA-approved labor rates, provide the Contracting Officer with 
copies of the DCAA documents stating the approval. This is the most acceptable means of 
documentation to determine the rates fair and reasonable. Other types of supporting 
documentation may include General Service Administration (GSA) contract price lists, actual 
payroll journals, or Salary.com research. If an employee listed in a cost proposal is not a current 
employee (maybe a new employee, or one contingent upon the award of this contract), a copy of 
112
the offer letter stating the hourly rate, signed and accepted by the employee, may be provided as 
adequate documentation. 
Sometimes the hourly rates listed in a proposal are derived through subjective processes, i.e., 
blending of multiple employees in one labor category, or averaged over the course of the year to 
include scheduled payroll increases, etc. These situations should be clearly documented for the 
Contracting Officer. 
(2) Another cost element in Direct Labor is labor escalation, or the increase in labor rates 
from year to year. In the example above, the proposed labor escalation is 3% (ex., Andy Smith’s 
direct labor rate increased by 3% from $55.00/hour in Year 1 to $56.65/hour in Year 2). Often 
times, an applicant may not propose escalation on labor rates during a 24-month period. 
Whatever the proposed escalation rate is, please be prepared to explain why it is fair and 
reasonable. For example, a sufficient explanation for our sample escalation rate would be “The 
Government’s General Schedule Increase and Locality Pay for the same time period (name FY) 
in the same location (name location) was published as 3.5%; therefore a 3% increase is fair and 
reasonable”. ii. Other Direct Costs (ODCs): This section of the cost proposal includes all other 
directly related costs required in support of the effort (i.e., materials, subcontractors, consultants, 
travel, etc.). Any cost element that includes various items must be detailed in a cost breakdown. 
(1) Direct Material Costs: This subsection of the cost proposal will include any special tooling, 
test equipment, and material costs necessary to perform the project. Items included in this 
section must be carefully reviewed relative to need and appropriateness for the work proposed, 
and must, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, be advantageous to the Government and 
directly related to the specific topic. 
The Contracting Officer will require adequate documentation from the applicant to determine the 
cost reasonableness for each material cost proposed. The following methods are ways in which 
the Contracting Officer can determine this [FAR 15.403-1]: 
(a) Adequate Price Competition. A price is based on adequate price competition 
when the applicant solicits and receives quotes from two or more responsible vendors for 
the same or similar items or services. Based on these quotes, the applicant selects the 
vendor who represents the best value to the Government. The applicant will be required 
to provide to the Contracting Officer copies of all vendor quotes received. 
*NOTE: Price competition is not required for items at or below the micro-purchase 
threshold ($3,000) [FAR 15.403-1]. If an item’s unit cost is less than or equal to 
$3,000, price competition is not necessary. However, if an item’s total cost over the 
period of performance (unit cost x quantity) is higher than $3,000, two or more quotes must 
be obtained by the applicant. 
(b) Commercial Prices. Commercial prices are those published on current price lists, 
catalogs, or market prices. This includes vendors who have prices published on a GSA
113
schedule contract. The applicant will be required to provide copies of such price lists to 
the Contracting Officer. 
(c) Prices set by law or regulation. If a price is mandated by the Government (i.e. 
pronouncements in the form of periodic rulings, reviews, or similar actions of a 
governmental body, or embodied in the laws) that is sufficient to set a price. 
Below is the list of Direct Material costs included in our sample proposal: 
DIRECT MATERIAL COSTS YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Raw Materials $35,000.00 $12,000.00
Computer for experiments $4,215.00 $0.00
Cable (item #12-3657, 300 ft.) $1,275.00 $0.00
Software $1,825.00 $1,825.00
Subtotal Direct Materials Costs $42,315.00 $13,825.00 
“Raw Materials”: This is a generic label used to group many material items into one cost item 
within the proposal. The Contracting Officer will require a detailed breakout of all the items that 
make up this cost. For each separate item over $3,000 (total for Year 1 + Year 2), the applicant 
must be able to provide either competitive quotes received, or show that published pricing was 
used. 
“Computer for experiments”: This item is most likely a grouping of several components that 
make up one system. The Contracting Officer will require a detailed breakout of all the items 
that make up this cost. For each separate item over $3,000 (total for Year 1 + Year 2), the 
applicant must be able to provide either competitive quotes received, or show that published 
pricing was used. 
“Cable”: Since this item is under the simplified acquisition threshold of $3,000, competitive 
quotes or published pricing are not required. Simply provide documentation to show the 
Contracting Officer where this price came from. 
“Software”: This cost item could include either one software product, or multiple products. If 
this includes a price for multiple items, please provide the detailed cost breakdown. Note: The 
price for Year 1 ($1,825) is below the simplified acquisition threshold; however, in total (Year 1 
+ Year 2) the price is over $3,000, so competitive quotes or published pricing documentation 
must be provided. 
Due to the specialized types of products and services necessary to perform these projects, it may 
not always be possible to obtain competitive quotes from more than one reliable source. Each 
cost element over the simplified acquisition threshold ($3,000) must be substantiated. There is 
always an explanation for how the cost of an item was derived; document how you came up with 
that price. 
114
When it is not possible for an applicant to obtain a vendor price through competitive quotes or 
published price lists, the Contracting Officer may accept other methods to determine cost 
reasonableness. Below are some examples of other documentation, which the Contracting 
Officer may accept to substantiate costs: 
(a) Evidence that a vendor/supplier charged another applicant a similar price for 
similar services. Has the vendor charged someone else for the same product? Two (2) to 
three (3) invoices from that vendor to different customers may be used as evidence. 
(b) Previous contract prices. Has the applicant charged the Government a similar 
price under another Government contract for similar services? If the Government has 
already paid a certain price for services, then that price may already be considered fair 
and reasonable. Provide the contract number, and billing rates for reference. 
(c) DCAA approved. Has DCAA already accepted or verified specific cost items 
included in your proposal? Provide a copy of DCAA correspondence that addressed these 
costs. 
(2) ODCs: Below is the remaining ODC portion of our proposal including equipment, 
subcontractors, consultants, and travel. Assume in this scenario that competitive quotes or 
catalog prices were not available for these items: 
ODCs YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Equipment Rental for Analysis $5,500.00 $5,600.00
Subcontractor – Widget, Inc. $25,000.00 $0.00
Consultant: John Bowers $0.00 $12,000.00
Travel $1,250.00 $1,250.00 
Subtotal: ODCs $31,750.00 $18,850.00 
“Equipment Rental for Analysis”: The applicant explains that the Year 1 cost of 
$5,500 is based upon 250 hours of equipment rental at an hourly rate of $22.00/hr. One (1) 
invoice from the vendor charging another vendor the same price for the same service is provided 
to the Contracting Officer as evidence. Since this cost is over the simplified acquisition 
threshold, further documentation to determine cost reasonableness is required. The applicant is 
able to furnish another invoice charging a second vendor the same price for the same service. 
“Subcontractor – Widget, Inc.”: The applicant provides a copy of the subcontractor quote to the 
Contracting Officer in support of the $25,000 cost. This subcontractor quote must include 
sufficient detailed information (equivalent to the data included in the prime’s proposal to the 
Government), so that the Contracting Officer can make a determination of cost reasonableness.