ARMY RESEARCH LABORATORY 
BROAD AGENCY ANNOUNCEMENT FOR 
BASIC AND APPLIED SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 
W911NF-17-S-0003 
01 April 2017 – 31 March 2022 
 
 
 
ISSUED BY: 
 
U.S. Army Contracting Command 
Aberdeen Proving Ground 
Research Triangle Park Division P. 
O. Box 12211 
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-2211 
Special Notes
1. Formatting of the Announcement
The following table provides an overview of the outline structure of this announcement: 
I. 
A. 
1. 
a. 
i. 
(1) 
(a) 
(i) 
2. See Appendix 1 for a Table of Acronyms used in this announcement. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
I. OVERVIEW OF THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY 1 
A. Required Overview Content 3 
1. Agency Name 3 
2. Research Opportunity Title 3 
3. Announcement Type 3 
4. Research Opportunity Number 3 
5. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number and Title 3 
6. Response Dates 3 
B. Additional Overview Information 3
II. DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY 5 
A. Program Description 5 
1. COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCES (CS) CAMPAIGN 5 
a. KCI-CS-1: Tactical High Performance Computing (HPC) 5 
b. Real-time, Scalable Data Analytics for the Army 6 
c. Computational Modeling of Complex Systems 8 
d. Computing Sciences for Advanced and Unconventional Computing 
Architectures 
10
e. Supercomputing Technologies 12 
f. Distributed Simulation, Integration, and Interoperability 12
2. MATERIALS RESEARCH (MR) CAMPAIGN 13 
a. KCI-MR-1: Materials for Soldier and Platform Power Systems 13
b. KCI-MR-2: Energy Efficient Electronics and Photonics 17 
c. KCI-MR-3: Agile Expedient Manufacturing 17 
d. KCI-MR-4: Quantum Sciences 18 
e. KCI-MR-5: Energy Coupled to Matter (ECM) for Responsive Materials 19
f. KCI-MR-6: Lightweight Materials 19 
g. CCE-MR-1: Designing Materials 20 
h. CCE-MR-2: Materials Synthesis and Processing 21 
i. CCE-MR-3: Materials Characterization and Discovery 22
j. Photonics 23
k. Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) 25 
l. Energy and Power 26
m. Biologically Derived Sensor, Power, Device and Materials Research (MR) 27
 n. RF to THz Devices and Integrated Circuit Technology 28
3. SCIENCES FOR MANEUVER (ScMVR) CAMPAIGN 28
a. KCI-ScMVR-1: Force Protection and Augmentation through Intelligent 
Vehicles 
29
b. KCI-ScMVR-2: Advanced, Electrical Power Technologies and Components 30 
c. KCI-ScMVR-3: Discover and Advance Vertical Takeoff and Landing 
(VTOL) Innovations, Novel Concepts, and Ideas 
32
d. CCE-ScMVR-1: Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics 33 
e. CCE-ScMVR-2: High-Power Density and Energy-Efficient Engine and 
Drivetrain Technologies 
34 
f. CCE-ScMVR-3: Virtual Risk-Informed Agile Maneuver Sustainment 
(VRAMS) 
36
g. CCE-ScMVR-4: Mechanics and Dynamics of Complex Systems 37
h. Maneuver System Trade Space Methodology and Tools 38
4. INFORMATION SCIENCES (IS) CAMPAIGN 39
a. KCI-IS-1: Cyber Fire and Maneuver in Tactical Battle 40 
b. KCI-IS-2: Taming the Flash-Floods of Networked Battlefield Information 40 
c. KCI-IS-3: Acting Intelligently in a Dynamic Battlefield of Information, 
Agents, and Humans 
40
d. KCI-IS-4: Sensing and Information Fusion for Advanced Indications and 
Warnings 
41 
e. CCE-IS-1: Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere 
Environments 
41 
f. CCE-IS-2: Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Multi-Lingual Computing 42
g. CCE-IS-3: Text and Video Analytics 43
h. CCE-IS-4: Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation 43
i. CCE-IS-5: Sensors, Sensor Phenomenology, and Algorithms 44
j. Electric and Magnetic-Field Sensor Technology 45
 k. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 47
 l. Technologies for Spectrum Analysis and Control 48
5. SCIENCES FOR LETHALITY AND PROTECTION (ScL/P) CAMPAIGN 48
a. KCI-ScL/P-1: Scalable Lethal Adaptable Weapons Concepts 49
b. KCI-ScL/P-2: Desired Lethal Effects at Standoff Ranges in Constrained 
Environments 
49
c. KCI-ScL/P-3: Soldier Lethality and Protection 50
d. KCI-ScL/P-4: Adaptive and Cooperative Protection 50 
e. KCI-ScL/P-5: Disruptive Energetic Materials 51
f. CCE-ScL/P-1: Vehicle Protection from Kinetic Threats 51 
g. CCE-ScL/P-2: Terminal Ballistics and Blast Effects 52
6. HUMAN SCIENCES (HS) CAMPAIGN 52 
a. KCI-HS-1: Robust Human and Machine Hybridization 53
b. KCI-HS-2: Multi-Faceted Assessment of Soldier Variability 53 
c. KCI-HS-3: Training Effectiveness Research 54
d. CCE-HS-1: Real World Behavior 55
e. CCE-HS-2: Augmentation 56
f. CCE-HS-3: Training 57
g. CCE-HS-4: Humans in Multi-Agent Systems 61
7. ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT (AA) CAMPAIGN 63
a. KCI-AA-1: Methodology for A&A of Complex Systems and Technologies 
Across Multiple Domains
63 
b. KCI-AA-2: Visual, Interactive, Situational Analysis and Assessment 64
c. KCI-AA-3: Analysis and Assessment Methodology for Congested and 
Contested Operational Environments 
65
d. CCE-AA-1: Ballistics Survivability, Lethality, and Vulnerability (SLV) 65
e. CCE-AA-2: Cyber Survivability, Lethality, and Vulnerability (SLV) 67
f. CCE-AA-3: Electromagnetic Environment (EME) and Warfare 68
g. CCE-AA-4: Personnel Survivability 69
h. CCE-AA-5: Human Systems Integration (HSI) Modeling and Analysis 70 
i. CCE-AA-6: Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis 71 
8. OTHER PROGRAMS: Visiting Scientist Program (VSP) 72 
9. Translational Research Innovative Application Discovery (TRIAD) 72
B. Federal Award Information 76
C. Eligibility Information 79
1. Eligible Applicants 79
2. Cost Sharing or Matching 79
3. Other 80
D. Application and Submission Information 80
1. Address to View Broad Agency Announcement 80
2. Content and Form of Application Submission 80
3. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management (SAM) 93
4. Submission Dates and Times 94
5. Intergovernmental Review 94
6. Funding Restrictions 94
7. Other Submission Requirements 94
E. Application Review Information 95
1. Criteria 95
2. Review and Selection Process 95
3. Recipient Qualification 96
F. Award Administration Information 97
1. Award Notices 97
2. Administrative and National Policy Requirements 98
a. Required Representations and Certifications 98
b. Policy Requirements 102
3. Reporting 107
G. Agency Contacts 108
H. Other Information 109
1. Contract Proposals 109
2. Grant and Cooperative Agreement Proposals 117
APPENDIX 1: TABLE OF ACRONYMS 121
1
I. OVERVIEW OF THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY
The U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) is the Department of the Army’s corporate laboratory 
and sole fundamental research laboratory. It is dedicated to scientific discovery, technological 
innovation, and the transition of knowledge products. ARL is situated within the U.S. Army 
Research, Development, and Engineering Command (RDECOM) – a U.S. Army Materiel 
Command (AMC) Major Subordinate Command (MSC). The ARL mission is to “Discover, 
innovate, and transition Science and Technology (S&T) to ensure dominant strategic land power”. 
To accomplish its mission, ARL executes fundamental research to address enduring S&T 
challenges identified by the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and 
Technology [ASA(ALT)] and by priorities articulated by the Chief of Staff of the Army (CSA). 
In addition, the laboratory conducts research and analysis in emerging fields that may realize 
novel or vastly improved Army capabilities into the deep future (2030 and beyond). 
For ease of reference and clarity, the ARL research funding opportunities are organized into two 
separate funding opportunity announcements: the ARL Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) and 
the Army Research Office (ARO) BAA. 
The ARL BAA identifies topics of interest to the ARL Directorates (Computational and 
Information Sciences Directorate, Human Research and Engineering Directorate, Sensors and 
Electron Devices Directorate, Survivability/Lethality Analysis Directorate, Vehicle and 
Technology Directorate, and Weapons and Materials Research Directorate). The Directorates 
focus on executing in-house research programs, with a significant emphasis on collaborative 
research with other organizations in an Open Campus setting (Open Campus opportunities are 
described in detail at http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=2357). The Directorates 
fund a modest amount of extramural research in certain specific areas, and those areas are 
described in this BAA. 
The ARL BAA seeks proposals from institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, 
state and local governments, foreign organizations, foreign public entities, and for-profit 
organizations (i.e. large and small businesses) for research based on the following S&T 
campaigns: Computational Sciences, Materials Research, Sciences for Maneuver, Information 
Sciences, Sciences for Lethality and Protection, Human Sciences, and Assessment and Analysis. 
Further details are described in the ARL Technical Strategy and in the ARL S&T Campaigns 
located at www.arl.army.mil. These documents are subject to periodic refinements which may 
result in taxonomy inconsistencies. These inconsistencies should not affect the efficacy of the 
BAA to present a complete portfolio of essential ARL research. 
The ARL BAA generally conforms to the portfolio structured around mission, enemy, Key 
Campaign Initiatives (KCIs) and Core Campaign Enablers (CCEs). KCIs are substantive, longlived, primarily in-house technical programs focused on pursuing scientific discoveries, 
innovations, and knowledge product transitions that are expected to lead to greatly enhanced 
capabilities for the operational Army of 2030 and beyond. KCIs reflect a robust yet aggressive 
approach, and are delineated by near-term, mid-term, and long-term trajectories. CCEs are 
enduring technical thrusts dedicated to a fundamental understanding of new concepts and the 
2
maturation of foundational technologies and methodologies. The essence of the ARL technical 
portfolio is captured in the ARL Technical Strategy and by the ARL S&T Campaign Plans. 
Proposals are sought for cutting-edge innovative research that could produce discoveries with a 
significant impact to enable new and improved Army technologies and related operational 
capabilities and related technologies. The specific research areas and topics of interest described 
in this document should be viewed as suggestive, rather than limiting. 
Prospective applicants contemplating submission of a whitepaper or proposal are strongly 
encouraged to contact the appropriate Technical Point of Contact (TPOC). The TPOCs’ names, 
telephone numbers, and email addresses are listed immediately after each research area of interest. 
If requested by the TPOC, a whitepaper should be prepared in accordance with the instructions 
contained in this BAA. Upon receipt, a whitepaper will be evaluated and the applicant will be 
advised of the results. Applicants whose whitepapers receive a favorable evaluation may be 
encouraged to prepare a proposal in accordance with instructions contained in this BAA. The 
costs of whitepapers and/or proposals in response to this BAA are not considered an allowable 
direct charge to any award resulting from this BAA or any other award. It may be an allowable 
expense to the normal bid and proposal indirect costs specified in FAR 31.205-18. Proposals may 
be submitted at any time during the announcement period. 
The Army has a long history of advocating and supporting research at Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions (HBCU/MI). ARL welcomes proposals from 
HBCUs and MIs in full competition with all applicants who may submit proposals under this 
BAA. ARL also encourages the inclusion of HBCUs and/or MIs as part of a consortium proposal 
or as sub-recipients to prime recipients. 
In accordance with federal statutes, regulations, and Department of Defense (DoD) and Army 
policies, no person on grounds of race, color, age, sex, national origin, or disability shall be 
excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under 
any program or activity receiving financial assistance from the Army. 
Applicants submitting proposals are cautioned that only a Contracting or Grants Officer can 
obligate the Government to any legal instrument involving expenditure of Government funds. 
This BAA is also used to solicit research proposals for submission to the RDECOM International 
Technology Centers. 
All administrative inquiries regarding this BAA shall be submitted via email to: 
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. Scientific and technical questions should be referred to the 
TPOCs shown following each research area of interest. Interested parties are encouraged to 
periodically check any of the following websites for updates and amendments to this BAA: 
www.grants.gov, www.fbo.gov, and the ARL website, www.arl.army.mil/. 
PHILIP PERCONTI 
Director, 
U.S. Army Research Laboratory 
3
(End of Section) 
A. Required Overview Content
1. Agency Name:
U.S. Army Research Laboratory 
Issuing Acquisition Office:
U.S. Army Contracting Command-Aberdeen Proving Ground, Research Triangle Park 
(ACCAPG-RTP) Division 
2. Research Opportunity Title:
ARL Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) for Basic and Applied Scientific Research for 01 
April 2017 – 31 March 2022 
3. Announcement Type: Amended Announcement 
4. Research Opportunity Number: W911NF-17-S-0003 
5. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) 
Number and Title:
12.431 – Basic Scientific Research 
6. Response Dates:
This BAA is a continuously open announcement valid throughout the period from the date of 
issuance through 31 March 2022, unless announced otherwise. This announcement succeeds 
ARL BAA W911NF-12-R-0011 (including all amendments) dated 15 May 2012. 
(End of Section) 
 
B. Additional Overview Information 
This BAA sets forth research areas of interest to the ARL. This BAA is issued under paragraph 
6.102(d)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which provides for the competitive 
selection of basic and applied research proposals, and 10 U.S.C. 2358, 10 U.S.C. 2371, and 10 
U.S.C. 2371b, which provide the authorities for issuing awards under this announcement for 
basic and applied research. The definitions of basic and applied research may be found at 32 
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 22.105. 
4
Proposals submitted in response to this BAA and selected for award are considered to be the 
result of full and open competition and in full compliance with the provision of Public Law 
98369, "The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984" and subsequent amendments. 
The DoD agencies involved in this program reserve the right to select for award all, some, or 
none of the proposals submitted in response to this announcement. Due to Government budget 
uncertainties, no specific dollars have been reserved for awards under this BAA. The 
participating DoD agencies will provide no funding for direct reimbursement of whitepaper or 
proposal development costs. 
Whitepapers and technical and cost proposals (or any other material) submitted in response to 
this BAA will not be returned to the applicant. Unless noted in an applicant's proposal to the 
contrary, unsuccessful proposals will be retained for six (6) months from declination and then 
properly destroyed. It is the policy of participating DoD agencies to treat all proposals as 
sensitive, competitive information and to disclose their contents only for the purposes of 
evaluation. 
An applicant may withdraw a proposal at any time before award by written notice or by email 
sent to the government point of contact identified in Section G of this BAA. 
(End of Section) 
5
II. DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY
A. Program Description
1. COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCES (CS) CAMPAIGN 
The CS Campaign focuses on advancing the fundamentals of predictive simulation sciences, 
data intensive sciences, computing sciences, and emerging computing architectures to 
transform the future of complex Army applications. Gains made through these underpinning 
multidisciplinary research efforts and exploiting emerging advanced computing systems will 
lead to scientific breakthroughs that are expected to have significant impact on Army materiel 
systems. Technologies resulting from this multidisciplinary research collaboratively with other 
ARL S&T campaign innovations will have a significant impact on Power Projection 
Superiority, Information Supremacy, Lethality and Protection Superiority, and Soldier 
Performance Augmentation for the Army of 2030. 
Represented in this BAA for the CS Campaign are one KCI and five CS-related topics that are 
integrated to form a robust advanced computing foundation to understand and overcome 
complex fundamental challenges simultaneous to improving approaches of importance to the 
Army, including weapon systems design; materials-by-design; information dominated and 
networked battle command applications; system-of-systems analyses; human performance 
modeling; platform maneuverability; and tactical supercomputers. The campaign heavily relies 
on ARL’s research expertise and facilities devoted to emerging advanced computing 
architectures, mobile High Performance Computing (HPC), multi-scale and interdisciplinary 
predictive simulation sciences, multi-dimensional distributed data analytics, and computing 
sciences. Discoveries and innovations made in this area will exert a significant impact on the 
Army of the future. There are natural synergies among the challenges facing ARL’s CS 
Campaign and ARL’s other S&T campaigns. Synergistic advances across all campaigns are 
expected to enable next generation scientific breakthroughs. 
a. KCI-CS-1: Tactical High Performance Computing (HPC) 
This KCI concentrates on understanding and exploiting the fundamental aspects of hardware 
and associated system software for emergent and future computing architectures for mobile, 
scientific, and data intensive applications. Computing systems include both mobile and 
fixed/virtual architectures optimized for fast communications, low power consumption, large 
hierarchical memory, novel and robust algorithms, high resiliency, and HPC networking. 
i. Tactical HPC integrates four primary research areas, including 1) advanced computing 
research to facilitate the efficient use of emerging architectures; new algorithm design and 
analysis approaches must be developed to boost the computing capacity of fixed and deployed 
devices; 2) research in provisioning these systems within a distributed computing architecture;
this work includes novel concepts to schedule computing tasks over friendly networked 
6
processors to limit network hop to appropriate resources; 3) dynamic binary translation to limit 
software re-writes and facilitate optimization in a runtime environment to achieve maximum 
performance; and 4) power- and architecture-aware computing for enhanced intelligence of 
provisioning systems to design systems that have greater awareness of their computing 
capacity and mission appropriateness. The critical, mobile ad hoc networks that will form the 
connections in tactical cloudlets to the large-scale databases and complex applications that will 
be performed by these resources make this research uniquely military and Army in nature. 
Numerous applications are envisioned for this system in the future and include artificial 
intelligence aids for decision making, processing large-scale datasets (text, video), and 
navigation systems for autonomous vehicles (HPC-enabled autonomous vehicles providing ondemand processing). 
ii. Emergent Computing Architectures research focuses on light weight architectures, large 
scale on-chip parallelism, and exascale performance to support petascale computing with 
multicore processors. These research efforts are also dedicated to developing novel algorithms 
and application formulations that facilitate the input and output rates required for petascale 
computing; and application development and performance optimization for next generation 
computing architectures. 
iii. Tactical Computing research is focused on better understanding algorithms and 
applications which facilitate seamless reach back to large-scale HPC systems and help to 
supply information to the Soldier at the tactical edge. Research in this area is dedicated to 
moving beyond optimizing devices in isolation, and embraces the challenges of crossenvironment co-design to address the needs of emerging tactical applications. 
iv. Next Generation Computing Architectures research is focused on non-traditional 
computing systems and envisioned to provide disruptive technologies for the Army. Cognitive
computing, neuro-synaptic computing, and DNA computing are some emerging concepts.
TPOC: Song Park, (410) 278-5444, song.j.park.civ@mail.mil 
Computational Sciences (CS) Related Topics: 
b. Real-Time, Scalable Data Analytics for the Army
This topic focuses on understanding and exploiting the fundamental aspects of large-scale, real 
time, multi-variate data analytics. Experiments, observations, and numerical simulations are on 
the verge of generating extreme quantities of data at ever increasing rates that must be 
processed for understanding and consumption. These massive amounts of data are distributed 
across disparate locations and pose a challenge in providing real-time analytics that support 
U.S. military operations. 
7
i. Brain-inspired computing research addresses the fundamental question of how our 
understanding of neuroscience, brain structure, and function inform the development of 
computing architectures to address Army research challenges. For instance, current models 
underlying existing machine learning are based on a 40 year old understanding of the structure 
and organization of animal brains. This research focuses on the design of neural network 
structures informed by our current understanding of the repeating micro-structure circuits 
neuroscience has discovered in brains. The benefits of this research may be the discovery of 
computing structures that are more powerful and learn more generally than the structures 
currently used. 
ii. Science of Large Data research is focused on pursuing theoretical developments and 
innovations to provide immersion in high dimensional data and very large-scale sets. These 
efforts are dedicated to discovering, evolving, and maturing analytic algorithms that efficiently 
scale to facilitate rapid analyses of massive data sets. The primary goal of this research area is 
to realize Army-relevant, high accuracy, predictive models based on massive data sets, which 
take advantage of emerging computing architectures. Additional areas of relevant research 
interest is maturation of methodologies to reduce data set dimensionality prior to modeling,
thereby greatly shortening computational time. 
iii. Computational Methods for Large-scale data analytics research is focused on 
identifying, evolving, and maturing innovative computational algorithms and methodologies to 
describe, model, simulate, solve, explore, and optimize control and coordination of 
computational systems impacted through physical events. Dynamic discrete event systems are 
data intensive and exist in many technological applications relevant to the Army, from 
communications to system-of-systems, to quantum sciences. 
iv. Data Intensive Computing Methods include the creation of scalable mathematical 
algorithms, predictive computational methods, real-time data analytics, model order reduction, 
human cognition based mathematical approaches, neuro- and biologically-inspired methods, 
science analyzing large-scale data from wearable electronics/technologies, large-scale data 
sensing/compression methodologies, large-scale visual analytics, live-virtual methods for 
training, data mining/learning mathematical algorithms for distributed heterogeneous 
computing systems. Computational scalable algorithmic research in cognitive behavior, 
artificial intelligence, human-machine interactions, and autonomous networks is also integral to 
this work. Novel methods to create systems capable of computing in memory and 
accommodating large amounts of unstructured data storage are critical to far-term success. 
v. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence research focuses on the development of 
new methods and algorithms, and how to optimally implement these approaches on emerging 
and specialized processors. The focus is to allow for novel discovery methods using machine 
learning and artificial intelligence approaches, and also optimized processing speeds to allow 
for satisfaction of fixed-time response requirements found in applications such as autonomous 
maneuver. 
8
TPOC: Manuel Vindiola, (410) 278-9151, manuel.m.vindiola.civ@mail.mil. 
c. Computational Modeling of Complex Systems
The subject topic concentrates on the fundamental aspects of CS to enable multi-disciplinary 
and multi-scale modeling and simulation (M&S) to predict, quantify, assess, and optimize the 
performance and response of complex systems, and system of systems, enabling rapid design, 
development, and transition particularly in cases where laboratory experimental approaches are 
costly and difficult to conduct, and/or are not feasible. Proposals are requested for the 
following areas: 
i. Computational Mathematics and Algorithms research encompasses a range of 
disciplines seeking computational methods to solve fundamental equations. Solutions may be 
sought for existing equations, or new equations may be developed expressly for the purpose of 
treating problems of interest to the Army. Problems in which the equations can be expressed in 
the form of partial differential equations stem from the basic science and engineering 
disciplines spanning characteristic length scales from sub-atomic to continuum, neural signals, 
stochastic variables, and design theory. Broad classes of problems may also require 
considerable specialization of solutions based on the platform used to obtain them. 
ii. Scientific Computing Research seeks understanding of phenomena that pertain to the 
scientific pursuits in and across traditional scientific disciplines that lack relevant 
computational capabilities. The problems are interdisciplinary, multi-physics with disparate 
intrinsic length and time scales. The equations, algorithms, and conceptual representation can 
change with respect to multi-dimensions (including space and time traversing scales or 
crossing the boundaries between scientific disciplines). Simulations bridging multi-scale 
domains are instrumental in discovering and revealing mechanisms and physics-based 
predictions (e.g., in materials, chemical and biological dispersion; micro-systems; biological 
ecosystems; and computer and human networks). High fidelity computations at the individual 
relevant scales, as well as research into mathematics and computational algorithms bridging 
these scales through innovative and scalable methodologies, including finite element methods, 
particle methods, and meshless methods applied to Computational Mechanics, Computational 
Fluid Dynamics (CFD), Computational Structural Mechanics (CSM), Computational 
Electromagnetics and Acoustics (CEA), and Computational Chemistry and Materials (CCM), 
are required. 
iii. Applied Computer Modeling and Analysis is focused on using predictive and reliable 
computational capabilities and tools to impact the design and deployment of critical Army 
systems and devices. CS-based enabling tools are required to perform large-scale system 
analysis from complex model development to detailed analytics. This includes innovative and 
scalable methods for Discrete Event Simulation (DES) that can be useful to a wide variety of 
performance and optimization problems in complex Army systems. 
9
iv. Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) research is focused on determining and quantifying 
simulations performance as intended, considering the range of conditions where models and 
simulations reproduce observed behavior within acceptable tolerances and established
confidence levels. UQ research is concerned with novel and efficient concepts and 
methodologies for high-fidelity assessment on the level of agreement in sets of models relative 
to input and output data, as well as the variations in interdependent models due to various 
physics, mathematical, and numerical assumptions. UQ methodologies, integrated with data 
sciences and machine learning will enable tools for: (1) identifying deficiencies in simulations; 
(2) setting guidelines for adequacy of computational results; (3) exploring the impact of known 
variability and uncertainty of input; and (4) control of adaptive algorithms to achieve specified 
levels of accuracy to aid decisions from design to operational planning. 
v. Multi-scale Modeling focuses on the development of new systems and models of 
complex phenomena by significantly reducing development time and evaluation costs. This 
goal can be achieved with: 1) high-fidelity physical models at multiple scales; and 2) 
computational methodologies (numerical methods and associated algorithms) to enable rapid 
creation of new high-fidelity multi-scale computer models of complex systems capable of 
utilizing modern extreme-scale computing. 
The success of multi-scale modeling hinges on the ability to combine at-scale models into a 
multi-scale model. However, few numerical methodologies and associated algorithms have 
been developed so far to enable such scale-bridging. Moreover, many at-scale models are 
extremely demanding computationally and render any multi-scale model utilizing them 
unsuitable for practical applications. While surrogate modeling allows reduction of this 
computational cost, most methodologies for surrogate modeling are global, and thus are 
characterized by a relatively high cost. New adaptive, non-local surrogate modeling 
methodologies are needed, which can bring the computational cost to tractable levels. Finally, 
at-scale models are frequently endowed with uncertainty due to various sources, such as natural 
fluctuations, model parameters, or model form. This uncertainty and natural variability must 
be consistently incorporated into multi-scale computer models in order to enable computational 
design. 
(1) Four main areas will be the focus of the effort in multi-scale CS: 
(a) Hierarchical Multi-scale Framework 
(b) Discrete Dislocation Dynamics 
(c) Phonon and Electron Transport 
(d) Density Functional Theory 
(2) The strategic approach to these focus areas include: 
(a) Shortened development time and evaluation costs of novel energetic materials by 
allowing macro-scale response to be accurately predicted directly from composition and 
chemical reactivity at the molecular level. 
10
(b) Development of novel materials for battery applications through expedited 
computational evaluation of potential compositions. 
(c) Advanced Soldier protective equipment and vehicle occupant protection through 
accurate multi-scale prediction of skeletal fracture in comprehensive analysis and 
design simulations. 
(d) Accelerated material development for Army applications enabled by high-fidelity 
multi-scale simulation methodologies (Materials by Design). 
vi. Interdisciplinary Sciences research includes the development of fully validated, large-scale 
parallel software, which will simulate multi-scale, complex systems in multiple technology 
areas. This software will integrate diverse temporal and spatial scale models, some running 
concurrently for highly coupled system components, and others sequentially, as dictated by the 
system functionality. The highly coupled model components may be separate executables, 
running at different time scales and potentially on different computational platforms. Some of 
the components may be commercial or third-party software packages where only the 
executable is available. The data exchange and particulars of the execution would be 
transparent to the user. Multi-scale analysis and material by design are supported through this 
scalable computational methodologies and software. The system software would be integrated 
with optimization algorithms and capabilities for determining design sensitivity and UQ. Use 
of reduced order models will provide varying levels of computational speed and fidelity for 
different needs, and will facilitate coupling through reduced data sets across distinct physical 
representations of system components. 
TPOC: Ernest Chin, (410) 306-1988, ernest.s.chin.civ@mail.mil, and Jarek Knap, (410) 
2780420, jaroslaw.knap.civ@mail.mil. 
d. Computing Sciences for Advanced and Unconventional Computing Architectures 
Focuses on understanding and exploiting the fundamental aspects of hardware and associated 
system software for emergent and future computing architectures for mobile, scientific, and 
data intensive applications. Computing systems include both mobile and fixed/virtual 
architectures optimized for fast communications, low power consumption, large hierarchical 
memory, novel and robust algorithms, high resiliency, and HPC networking. Computing 
science is focused on developing the understanding, tools, techniques, and methodologies to 
fully exploit emerging computing architectures through realization efficient parallel task 
algorithms and take advantage of memory hierarchies. These efforts are expected to greatly 
reduce the time required to re-state algorithms in parallel form and with correct implementation 
faults and bugs. 
i. Programming Languages and Processes research is focused on exploring research 
activities on adaptable operating system, behavioral programming languages, domain specific 
11
languages (DSL), and novel libraries. DSL’s will raise the level of abstraction of the codes that 
programmers write, both to maintain portability across increasingly diverse hardware and to 
give the language implementation more scope for choosing the best route to map a program on 
to the most appropriate computing hardware. 
ii. Programming Environments (PE) research is focused on simplifying HPC processes 
associated with application analysis and software development. Application enabling and data 
sharing environments are focused on assisting scientific software developers, scientists and 
engineers, and software users with ease of using evolving computing systems for data intensive 
applications. Disparate data from scientific simulations, experimental, sensors, and 
observations pose research challenges in making seamless integration with evolving computing 
systems. 
iii. Software integration is focused on using components of different application software,
and integrating software modules to achieve a different functionality. One approach to achieve 
better software, more quickly and at lower cost, is to adopt a design process that is based on 
systematic software reuse. The evolution of computing infrastructure is creating new 
challenges, ranging from energy-aware software development to software for massively 
parallel and distributed systems. 
iv. Distributed Computing-Based Algorithms for Quantum Networks and Quantum Control 
addresses one of the key roles of HPC for the Army: rapid processing of data that is obtained 
from sources distributed over different platforms and locations. Exploiting quantum 
phenomena has the potential to harness distributed information in powerful new ways, and may 
also allow distributed processing of such information well beyond present capabilities. The 
goal of this effort is to: 
(1) Understand how to design and control quantum networks to harness and process 
information from distributed sources, and how to do so securely and efficiently. 
(2) Explore how quantum networks may gain an advantage over traditional parallel 
processing by applying distributed operations to distributed information. An important enabler 
for this research is the ability to model and simulate quantum networks. A significant part of 
this effort is therefore devoted to developing efficient methods for modeling and simulating 
open quantum systems and networks of these systems. 
v. Co-Design of Algorithms and Hardware for Unconventional Computing Architectures 
research addresses the issues associated with advanced computing architectures that are 
becoming more complex with memory hierarchies, which are laid out as parallel processors 
with multiple processing cores. To harness the computational capability of these advanced 
computing architectures, new algorithms and software development paradigms are needed,
especially for the future Army S&T campaigns. In addition to petascale and beyond capability, 
there is a need for new architectures and algorithms, such as non-von Neumann systems like 
neuromorphic and quantum computing. Key goals include the development of algorithms and 
12
techniques to address power, performance, portability, and efficiency through the construction 
of domain specific architectures, scalable algorithms, and programming models. 
Representative thrust areas include: 
(1) Threaded message passing to allow for massive on-core RISC (reduced instruction set 
computer) -based architecture parallelism.
(2) Compiler-based software deployment, on neuromorphic architectures, focusing on a 
single control flow construct as a baseline.
(3) 3D rendering coupled with 3D printing of scientific visualization and modeling 
predictions of experimentation for verification, validation, and uncertainty quantification 
TPOC: Dale Shires, (410) 278-5006, dale.r.shires.civ@mail.mil, James Ross, (410) 278-9556, 
james.a.ross176.civ@mail.mil 
e. Supercomputing Technologies 
Focuses on delivering world-class HPC capabilities to the DoD S&T and Test and Evaluation 
(T&E) communities. These capabilities provide DOD scientists and engineers with the 
resources necessary to solve the most demanding computational problems. The capabilities 
include large scale HPC systems, high speed networks, multi-terabyte archival mass storage 
systems, data analysis and assessment, and computational software expertise. 
TPOC: Howard Kash, (410) 278-6507, howard.m.kash.civ@mail.mil. 
f. Distributed Simulation, Integration, and Interoperability
 
Existing simulation systems can be characterized as black boxes that interface externally 
allowing internal computations to be non-standard between models representing phenomena, 
which introduces fair fight issues and additional inconsistencies. Moreover, the desired 
contemporary uses of simulation often call for the ability to access simulation capabilities at 
the point of need. In parallel, computer science and computing technology continue to evolve 
providing unique opportunities for innovation in simulation. 
The Distributed Simulation, Integration and Interoperability CCE researches and develops 
methods and means to enable a simulation architecture that is truly based on composable 
models and services as opposed to the traditional method of various simulations interoperating. 
It aims to enable robust Army simulation capabilities with composable synthetic 
representations delivered where they’re needed in the form in which they’re needed. 
ARL is interested in research studies, demonstrations and development involving areas such as: 
13
(1) Methods and means that enable a single simulation architecture capable of supporting 
complex real-time and non-real-time uses 
(2) M&S as a service across geographically distributed areas 
(3) Application of advances in computing to the simulation domain 
(4) Novel encapsulation of military representations, models and data 
(5) Exploration of Digital Engineering, Model-Based Systems Engineering and other trade 
space analysis methodologies in the context of simulation environments 
Research activities should be demonstrated through uses cases relevant to the six Army M&S 
Communities (Acquisition, Analysis, Experimentation, Intelligence, T&E and Training). 
TPOC: Christopher McGroarty, (407) 208-3323, christopher.j.mcgroarty.civ@mail.mil. 
2. MATERIALS RESEARCH (MR) CAMPAIGN 
The MR Campaign focuses on fundamental research to provide superior materials and devices 
needed to achieve lasting strategic land power dominance. MR cross-cuts ARL’s four focused 
S&T campaigns by providing materials with superior properties to address emerging 
requirements and capabilities for all Army platforms. The Army of 2030 will require materials 
with unprecedented capabilities that can be rapidly grown or synthesized, and processed costeffectively to enable Army platforms that are highly mobile, information reliant, lethal, and 
protected. 
The MR Campaign has developed six KCIs, three CCEs, and four MR-related topics that are 
designed to address the future Army’s need to rapidly respond to emerging threats and to 
eliminate tactical surprise – caused by the proliferation of advanced technology by our 
adversaries – by creating a materials by-design and on-demand enterprise; and a manufacturing 
science engine to ensure rapid progression from materials discovery to delivery, with the goal 
of producing materials in greatly reduced timeframes and at a fraction of the cost compared to 
today. 
a. KCI-MR-1: Materials for Soldier and Platform Power Systems 
Design of Soldier and platform power as a system is required to enable indefinite power for 
tactical units and significantly reduces the logistics tail for power resupply. To accomplish this 
requires significant materials and device advancement in the areas of alternative energy, 
advanced energy storage, and energy conversion. This KCI focuses on increasing power supply 
in the three focus areas: (i) Alternative energy; (ii) Advanced energy storage; and (iii) Energy 
conversion technologies. 
14
The Alternative Energy area focuses on developing ultraenergetic materials and radioisotope 
power sources. Radioactive isotopes represent the greatest possible energy density, about 108
Wh/kg, achievable without the use of nuclear reactors – at more than 100,000 times the 
intrinsic energy density of chemicals, radioisotopes are truly ultra-energetic materials. Isotopes 
and isomers of greatest interest are those with half-lives exceeding 10 years, while their 
corresponding ground states may be stable or, in many cases, unstable. A research objective in 
support of the application of this technology is to understand the physics underlying radiation 
hard materials, and to measure efficiencies for related power sources. As a separate technology, 
wireless power is focused to enable truly wireless distribution in which loads and sources are 
free to move while maintaining power levels and efficiency. 
The Advanced Energy Storage area focuses on developing new materials and components for 
very high energy density and high power density batteries as well as novel energy storage 
technologies for Army capabilities. Battery research is focused on developing new materials 
for high voltage, high temperature, extended cycle life, and high power energy storage for 
military environments and applications. Development of embedded, flexible, multifunctional 
structures that provide the required structural and power/energy performance under combined 
load without compromising the safety or integrity of the target platform are being sought. 
The Energy Conversion Technologies area focuses on mechanical and thermal conversion 
systems, used to generate electrical energy from Soldier power systems to base level power 
generators or to generate mechanical energy for ground and air vehicles. Efforts are focused on 
compact thermal sources that generate thermal energy efficiently from transportable fuels. A 
primary goal is to integrate the thermal source with thermal-to-electric energy converters for 
Soldier and Soldier system power sources capable of 1000 Wh/kg energy densities. Fuel cells as 
energy conversion devices offer improvements in energy density; however, miniaturization and 
cost reductions are necessary. Acid-alkaline hybrid fuel cell stack designs can help meet these 
needs and motivate the development of anion exchange membranes (AEMs). The JP-8 
reformation research and development (R&D) program is directed at reformation of JP-8 fuel 
into a hydrogen rich alternative fuel for downstream power generation. Essential will be the 
development of liquid phase desulfurization process and Pd-composite membrane for hydrogen 
separation. 
i. Electrochemical Power Production and Energy Storage areas of interest are: 
(1) Active and Reserve Primary Batteries for Munitions Applications: Research of new 
battery chemistries, materials, and battery designs for improved thermal and liquid electrolyte 
reserve batteries capable of supplying power densities from 20 to 400 Watts/liter after 10 or 
more years of storage. Primary areas of interest are: thin-film thermal battery chemistries, 
materials, components, or production methodologies for batteries with faster activation, higher 
power, smaller volume, more-flexible form-factor, greater mechanical robustness, or better 
production efficiency; and new forms of heat sources that would be compatible with the thin-
15
film thermal battery technology. Storage and operation are required over the full military 
temperature range. 
(2) Primary Lithium Batteries: Research in battery chemistries for cells and stacks of cells 
for man-portable applications using environmentally-friendly materials capable of providing 
better service than the Army's present general-purpose Li/SO2 and Li/MnO2 batteries. 
Emphasis is on modification of commercial chemistries to permit all-weather storage and use. 
This may include Li/air, Li/S and Li/CFx formulations. The development of manufacturing 
technology for these batteries is an area of interest. 
(3) Rechargeable Li (Li-Ion) Batteries: Research in electrode and electrolyte materials for 
cells and stacks of cells using liquid or polymeric electrolytes capable of providing, at the 
packaged cell level, specific energies greater than 250 Wh/kg, specific power greater than 50 
W/kg continuous, and greater than 10 kW/kg pulse power over the full military temperature 
range. Hybrid energy storage technology that provides both high power and extended cycle 
life, beyond conventional Li-ion, at a moderate energy density. The development of 
manufacturing technology for these batteries is an area of interest. 
(4) Advanced battery chemistries to include multivalent materials such as magnesium and 
aluminum. Research of components, especially electrolytes and cathodes to allow stable 
operation. Research in Aqueous Li-ion to provide high energy and safe li-ion batteries for 
Soldier carried applications. Investigation in Lithium rechargeable batteries including Li-S and 
Li-Air as well as development of new cathodes and electrolytes for rechargeable lithium 
batteries that reduce or eliminate dendrite formation. Advanced solid electrolytes for all solid 
state batteries and molten salt batteries including advanced processing of solid electrolytes into 
dense robust membranes required for cell manufacture. 
(5) Batteries for grid storage applications that include molten salt batteries, dual 
intercalation batteries, and aqueous electrolyte storage batteries. 
(6) Fuel Cells: R&D of improved low temperature alkaline and acid based polymer 
electrolyte membrane fuel cells and components including catalysts for use with alcohol and 
solid fuels. Use M&S to solve and improve fuel cells performance. The development of 
hydrocarbon fuel reformers and reformer components, including desulfurizers and sulfur 
tolerant reformer catalysts to provide hydrogen for fuel cells are areas of interest. The 
development of medium and high temperature fuel cells and components for the direct 
utilization of hydrocarbon fuels or impure hydrogen is also an area of interest. 
(7) Fast Discharge Pulse Power Capacitors: Research of film capacitor technology 
including the development of high energy density dielectric films, impregnants, metallization 
and manufacturing technology for capacitors that can provide energy densities > 2.0 J/cc with a 
DC life over 2000 hours, and discharge time is the microseconds range. 
16
(8) High Temperature Capacitors for Power Electronics: R&D of high temperature 
polymeric dielectrics including process development for high temperature thin film 
manufacturing. The capacitors made of such thin film dielectric should be operable at 
temperatures over 125oC, preferably over 150 degrees C. The capacitors shall have the 
following characteristics: a dissipation factor below 0.5 percent, insulation resistance greater 
than 105 ohm-farad at 125oC, operational life of greater than 10,000 hours at frequency greater 
than 20 kHz and rms current greater than 1.0 A/microfarad. 
ii. Ultra-Energetic Materials and Energy Storage areas of interest include, but are not limited 
to, the following: 
(1) Radioisotopes and Nuclear Isomers: Develop and study approaches to the control of 
nuclear emission and/or nuclear decay rates. Investigate nuclear structure of isomeric nuclei, 
particularly focused on long-lived isomers from which gamma or charged particle emission 
could be utilized for power sources. 
(2) Radioisotope/Nuclear Isomer Energy Conversion: Develop and study improved 
concepts for conversion of nuclear decays into usable electrical power. Techniques using 
liquids or novel materials are of interest for long-lived micro-power sources. 
TPOC: Marc S. Litz, (301) 394-5556, marc.s.litz.civ@mail.mil, and James Carroll, (301) 
3941411, james.j.carroll99.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Topological materials for energy efficient electronics operating at or near room 
temperature. Research interest includes, but is not restricted to, the following: 
(1) Molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) growth and characterization of thin layers of topological 
materials (topological insulators, Dirac and Weyl semimetals, topological superconductors). 
(2) Theoretical and experimental investigation of the magnetotransport properties of 
topological surface states of three dimensional topological insulators, and the 
magnetotransport characteristics of two-dimensional topological insulators. 
 
(3) Topologically enabled devices and technology based on active heteroepitaxial interfaces 
between topological materials and ferroic materials, as well as topological materials and 
high temperature superconductors. 
(4) Investigations of proximity-induced superconductivity in topological materials.
(5) Magneto-terahertz investigations of topological surface states of three dimensional 
topological materials. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil. 
17
b. KCI-MR-2: Energy Efficient Electronics and Photonics 
ARL aims to discover, design and develop future electronic devices, circuits, materials, 
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), on-chip energetic materials, and heterogeneous 
integration techniques that enable order of magnitude reductions in the power-draw of systems 
for Soldier and small platforms while maintaining or increasing functionality. Novel circuit 
topologies combined via heterogeneous integration with emerging electronic and photonic 
devices on conventional substrates such as silicon will enable new energy efficient front ends 
that result in longer mission lifetime for Army systems. Advanced wideband gap devices will 
be critical for smart power management as well as highly efficient radio frequency power 
amplifiers for assured communications and electronic warfare (EW) applications. Advanced 
electronic materials work may comprise: two dimensional materials; active heterogeneous 
interfaces; photonics sources and detectors and topological phases of matter to reduce the 
power demand of future electronic and photonic systems. MEMS offer alternative ways to 
enhance electronic devices and extend their capabilities to offer novel power management 
approaches, no or lower-power overall power solutions for electronics devices, and enable 
energy efficient system level approaches for highly adaptable, tunable, and reconfigurable 
electronics. On-chip energetics offer a way to generate energy at the chip level reducing overall 
system size, weight, and power requirements as well as adding new functionality not available 
via traditional electronics. Ultimately, the heterogeneous integration of novel electronic and 
photonic materials with conventional substrates such as silicon will open up a new paradigm 
for Army systems. 
TPOC: James Wilson, (301) 394-0328, james.e.wilson889.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-MR-3: Agile Expedient Manufacturing 
The objective of the Agile Expedient Manufacturing KCI is to enable adaptive, rapid, and low 
cost fabrication of replaceable parts that are certified for service through the development of 
novel synthesis and processing methods. The subject KCI’s objectives includes 2D and 3D 
hybrid electronics assembly and packaging concepts for sensors and systems. Manufacturing 
capabilities developed through this effort are expected to enable 3D additive approaches that 
facilitate alloying-by-design concurrent with (near-) net-shape fabrication with reduced time 
from raw material to finished component. Research contributing to this goal includes the 
system thermodynamics and kinetics within a meta-stable environment of rapid heating, 
material melting, alloy mixing, cooling and solidification, and solid state transformation 
throughout the entire 3D additive manufacturing process. Materials (commercial off-the-shelf 
(COTS), bio-derived, indigenous, and specialty materials) of varying length-scale and 
morphology (nano, multi-phase, 2D/3D composites, and coatings) and various material classes 
(metallics, ceramics, glasses, polymers, and composites) are the basis from which property 
datasets are established for component design. Designing and producing the precursor 
materials is a key component of this effort. Further, this work is focused on developing a 
better understanding of the preconditioning, and tailoring of precursor materials for 
thermomechanical processing to achieve the designed properties and performance. The 2D and 
18
3D hybrid electronics shall support the development of additive processes for flexible 
electronics and 3D hybrid electronics and research in components sensors that include, but are 
not limited to, Soldier health monitoring, asset monitoring, communications, antennas and 
navigation, and soft robotics. Related topics that engage education and workforce development 
are also of interest.
A second objective of the Agile Expedient Manufacturing KCI is to develop a multi-material 
2D/3D composites capability for fabrication, characterization, and printing of polymer/ceramic 
composite electromagnetic and conductive materials for antennas and other radio frequency 
devices. Increased versatility of additive manufacturing (AM) in the RF design space requires 
high dielectric substrates. AM filaments with dielectric constants greater than 6 are not 
commercially available. Research investigating methods for extruding high dielectric AM 
filaments through a robust and repeatable method that allows for the printing of AM substrates 
with a given value of dielectric constant is paramount. Furthermore, characterization of 
complex dielectric constant from ultra-high frequency (UHF) through Ka-band will be 
required. A final need for 2D/3D composites is research in the area of conductive inks. 
Conductive inks can achieve conductivity of five to ten times less than bulk copper, but require 
sintering at temperatures above 175 degrees Celsius. 2D/3D composites printed from polymer 
based filaments will melt at these temperatures, preventing the goal of hybrid 3D printing of 
RF components and antennas. Alternative methods, such as localized laser sintering or flash 
annealing are examples of research methods hoping to achieve high conductivity in the 
presence of 3D printed polymer substrates. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil, Gregory Mitchell, 
(301) 394-2322, Eric Forsythe, (301) 394-0606, eric.w.forsythe.civ@mail.mil, and Harvey 
Tsang, (301) 394-5734, harvey.h.tsang.civ@mail.mil.
d. KCI-MR-4: Quantum Sciences 
Over the past century, the quantum principles of superposition, electronic structure, and 
uncertainty relations gave us tremendous advances in a number of applications relevant to the 
military, including atomic clocks, magnetometry, PNT, and gravimetry. While these areas can 
still be improved through technological advances, next generation gains in sensing and in 
secure communications will occur through the concept of quantum entanglement. 
An ideal approach to investigating entanglement is through exploration of a quantum network, 
in which quantum information and processing can be stored in quantum memories at multiple 
nodes. Great advances have been made to increase the fidelity of critical quantum components 
needed to establish a resilient network of quantum entangled resources in various atomic and 
solid-state systems. Although several research groups have demonstrated point-to-point 
quantum teleportation, entanglement distribution, quantum error correction, and quantum 
memory, no scalable, integrated, modular architecture exists by which one can connect three or 
more quantum nodes and through which quantum information may be processed. 
19
A particularly critical requirement is the establishment of efficient light-matter interfaces, 
which enable photons to be written into and read from a quantum system. The in-house 
Quantum Sciences effort working cooperatively with academia and industry will investigate 
this aspect of an entanglement-based distributed quantum network. Specifically, we will 
explore both ensemble quantum systems (neutral atom gases and rare-earth stoichiometric 
crystals) and single qubit systems (ion traps and solid state defects). Examples of approaches 
to enhanced light-matter interactions are cavity QED and nanophotonic integration. Additional 
efforts within this program are to explore Army-relevant applications for such distributed 
entanglement; identify performance limitations of a distributed heterogeneous quantum 
network that must be overcome or are fundamental. Specific material components include 
quantum memories, quantum registers, quantum processors, quantum switches, quantum 
frequency conversion devices, entangled photon sources, single-photon detectors, matterphoton interfaces, quantum sensors, as well as other technologies enabling the realization of 
integrated, chip-scale and/or modular components for robust, mobile distributed quantum 
information networks. 
TPOC: Frederick Fatemi, (301) 394-1531, fredrik.k.fatemi.civ@mail.mil. 
e. KCI-MR-5: Energy Coupled to Matter (ECM) for Responsive Materials 
ECM is an emerging technology that goes beyond the traditional process optimization factors 
of scale, composition, temperature, and pressure. The research focuses on the understanding 
that energy transfer is non-linear. Design of Experiments (DoE) methodologies are coupled 
with modeling as one approach to understanding the physics of energy transfer in the synthesis 
and processing of materials under high and multi-physics fields (e.g. electric, magnetic, 
acoustic, microwave, radiation, and others). This work pursues innovative physics-based 
approaches for controlling the thermodynamic behavior of metals, intermetallics, polymers, 
ceramics and hybrid composite systems. Manipulating transformation pathways in favor of 
new non-equilibrium alloys, aligned phases, controlled nanoscale architectures, and producing 
materials with revolutionary, on-demand, permanent or temporary material properties or shape 
changes will provide an unparalleled opportunity for advanced materials. Additionally, 
materials developed using ECM principles will have been designed and transitioned for 
application to enable adaptive ”on-command” protection technologies by diverting, bending, 
and fracturing ballistic threat projectiles with greater efficiency, thus reducing system weight 
and volume. Further, higher strength projectiles fabricated through ECM MR will be used as a 
foundation to design lethal effects for defeating future enemy protection systems. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil. 
f. KCI-MR-6: Lightweight Materials 
This area seeks lightweight materials of all classes on-demand (flexible and affordable 
manufacturing innovations) and by-design (from atoms to properties) in order to develop and 
achieve concurrent materials and system design with significant weight reduction. This 
20
initiative develops and exploits computational materials models, guided and validated by 
experiments. These models include realistic materials physics, executed at the appropriate 
length and time scales, to accurately model material composition, (micro)structure, mechanical 
and physical properties and system performance. This is expected to enable the discovery, 
design and synthesis of material systems in concert with fabrication and system design not 
possible today. The material’s performance in the system is not only based on materials 
properties, but also includes the component’s functional design as part of the system. Specific 
research emphasis for discovering new lightweight materials and to quantify their performance 
in system designs include: a) property-processing-microstructure relationships in lightweight 
metals (magnesium, aluminum, titanium and high strength-to-weight alloys) within the 
chemistry, nano-engineering, solidification and thermomechanical processing design space; b) 
high rate toughening of lightweight armor ceramics that can support vehicular structural loads; 
and c) common efficient load transfer in hybrid lightweight composites via polymer and hybrid 
fiber interfacial engineering. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-MR-1: Designing Materials 
The MR CCEs in Designing Materials is a sustained effort to systematically build a science and 
engineering-based capability to design materials and related devices. Whether this be for 
electron, photon, phonon, mechanical, chemical, or living matter behavior, it relies on 
predicting and advancing the physics, chemistry, biology, and related engineering between 
microstructure and performance to enable the design of model materials and devices for Army 
relevant applications. 
Microstructure is the detailed description of materials from the atomistic to the relevant bulk 
scale for functional and performance purposes. Performance is the material system constitutive 
behavior in its passive or responsive state detailed by the combined intrinsic and extrinsic 
physical, biological, and chemical properties. Examples of materials and device performance 
goals are those identified in MR KCIs in Quantum Science, Energy Efficient Electronics and 
Photonics, Materials for Soldier and Platform Power Systems, Lightweight Materials, ECM 
and Responsive Materials, and Agile Expedient Manufacturing. To achieve the ability to 
design materials, the fundamental scientific requirement is the ability to effectively 
characterize the material state (microstructure) at the relevant length scales, and accurately 
predict through physics-based models and mechanisms the resultant properties of the material 
and even the final component based upon that knowledge alone. The objective of this MR CCE 
is to achieve the knowledge necessary to provide model materials and devices designed and 
optimized for predetermined Army-centric performance requirements. 
i. The MR CCE on Designing Materials investigates and advances mechanisms in organic, 
inorganic and living material microstructures relevant to three performance challenges: 
21
(1) Materials and devices to resist and perform under extreme dynamic, thermal, 
mechanical, chemical, biological environments; this effort considers all material classes. 
(2) Materials and devices to absorb, divert, convert, emit, detect, and direct the 
electromagnetic space. These include photonic, spintronic, and electronic devices, as well as 
electrochemical energy devices and biology enabled/enhanced devices. 
(3) Materials and devices to store and control rate-release of energy including device 
design work-such as on-chip pyrotechnic devices. These include battery materials; fuel cells; 
and other components. 
ii. The strategic approach to these focuses include: 
(1) Application of multi-scale M&S tools for articulation and virtual exploration of 
scientific mechanisms, bridging the material length and time scales, for a predictive design 
tool. Integrated materials by design capabilities for structural, electronic, electromagnetic, 
power and energetic materials for ARL KCIs and Army relevant material challenges. 
(2) Bio-inspired materials from living matter and systems/synthetic biology to design 
materials at a high degree of fidelity and unparalleled control. 
The integrated CCEs in Designing Materials, Materials Synthesis and 
Processing, and Materials Characterization and Discovery will be the foundation to leap ahead 
from Integrated Computational Materials Science and Engineering, to Ab Initio Design of 
materials and devices, to Production for Performance. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil, and William Benard, 
(301) 394-1322, william.l.benard.civ@mail.mil. 
h. CCE-MR-2: Materials Synthesis and Processing 
The purpose of this MR CCE in Materials Synthesis and Processing is to advance the 
fundamental sciences in synthesis and processing enabling fabrication of Army relevant 
materials and devices. New approaches and innovation in material synthesis and processing 
are necessitated by emerging requirements to explore new material systems, optimize materials 
for Army applications, and develop new processing methods to realize and transition materials 
to Army relevant applications. The desired synthesis and processing science will enable 
fabrication from atomistic-design to engineering bulk material and devices. This knowledge 
based research will seed synthesis and processing innovations in manipulating organic and 
inorganic matter to build materials with precision placement of atoms or with biological 
building blocks from design. 
In creating and broadening an opportunistic environment in synthesis and processing science 
for materials by design, three research foci will be emphasized: 
22
i. Synthesize, refine and tailor precursor materials’ chemistry and microstructure and 
subsequent processing methods to achieve the designed material specification as well as using 
biological systems leading to biologically inspired and/or derived synthesis of materials and 
devices. 
ii. Layer and construct materials, including 1 dimensional seeding, 2 dimensional surfaces, 
up to 3 dimensional bulk or layered element-by-element deposition methods, controlling the 
progressive material structure and properties systematically. 
iii. New methods for characterizing material properties for device-level modeling and 
selectively etching, depositing, and patterning synthesized and deposited materials to realize 
functional devices. 
This MR CCE in Synthesis and Processing will provide the underpinning sciences and 
engineering to deliver tangible materials from model material by design to support all the KCIs 
where materials are needed on-demand. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil. 
i. CCE-MR-3: Materials Characterization and Discovery 
The R&D of technology that can fully detail atoms-to-meters of materials will enable not just 
validation of what was predicted, but also discovery of the unexpected and the unknown. This 
MR CCE in Material Characterization and Discovery, in conjunction with the Materials Design 
and the Synthesis and Processing MR CCEs, is foundational and the door to future disruptive 
and un-planned discoveries enabling the MR KCIs in Quantum Science, Efficient Electronics 
and Photonics, Power for Soldier and Platforms, Lightweight Materials, ECM, and Agile 
Expedient Manufacturing. 
Contemporary methods to interrogating materials include a suite of spectroscopy, microscopy, 
and experimental characterization. Within each of these methods are extensive research and 
efforts to attain higher fidelity, better resolution, better consistencies, and in less time. The 
ARL continues to focus on advancing these techniques to explore materials enabling disruptive 
technologies for the Army. 
The MR CCE on Materials Characterization and Discovery is grounded on: 
(1) Designing and developing mechanistic-focused experimentation, 
 
(2) Enhancing and developing novel spectroscopic, microscopic and experimental techniques 
in conjunction with the other MR CCEs to enable the MR KCIs, and 
(3) Developing real-time full spectral probing, sensing, analytics and informatics to enable 
discovery of the unexpected. 
23
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil, and William Benard, 
(301) 394-1322, william.l.benard.civ@mail.mil. 
Materials Research (MR) Related Topics:
j. Photonics 
i. Novel Solid State Lasers and Laser Materials: The Army is interested in research on 
innovative gain media, for example laser-quality ceramics with emphasis on engineerable 
doping and index profile (e.g., gradient doping, sharp-step wave-guiding structures with sub10-micrometer diffusion zone); solid-state materials for high-gain stimulated Brillouin 
scattering (SBS) and stimulated Raman scattering (SRS); specialty fibers and fiber lasers 
suitable for high average powers and power scaling (e.g., with compositions for ultra-high SBS 
threshold; fully crystalline double-clad, i.e., crystalline core/crystalline cladding fibers; noncircular, high aspect ratio, fiber designs with well-developed mode selection mechanisms or 
self-mode selection); and advanced laser materials for diode-pumped eye-safe lasers (e.g., 
based on high and ultra-high thermal conductivity hosts, environmentally stable low-phonon 
hosts, or exceptionally high emission/absorption cross-section laser materials). 
TPOC: Mark Dubinskiy, (301) 394-1821, mark.dubinskiy.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Techniques for Power Scaling of Diode-Pumped Solid State Lasers: The Army also has 
interest in innovative highly efficient pump-coupling techniques; innovative pump diode and 
active medium cooling techniques (e.g., cooling via optically transparent highly thermoconductive materials); passive and active laser beam/aperture combining methods; laser 
wavelength shifting techniques for achieving high average powers with optimum eye-safety; 
active and passive wave-front distortion compensating/OPD reducing techniques. 
TPOC: Mark Dubinskiy, (301) 394-1821, mark.dubinskiy.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Semiconductor Modeling: ARL has identified a strategic need to foster and accelerate 
collaborative research related to the modeling of advanced electro-optic semiconductor 
materials and devices. This Modeling Center will act as a repository of a broad base of 
modeling knowledge to be shared across the community in order to foster the development of 
new materials as well as to reduce the timeline between “discovery” and manufacturing. 
Specific areas of modeling collaboration interest include: 
(1) Fundamental materials modeling related to semiconductor growth via molecular beam 
epitaxy (MBE), metal organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD), and atomic layer 
deposition (ALD). Interests lie in probing the parameter space related to developing new or 
exotic semiconductor alloy materials and structures encompassing II-VI, III-V, and III-VI 
systems with applications in the UV, IR, and topological and quantum regimes. 
24
(2) Electrical properties, including carrier transport and dynamics within semiconductor 
materials and across interfaces; carrier injection, and device performance metrics such as 
modulation transfer function (MTF) and noise. 
TPOC: Gregory Brill, (301) 394-0192, gregory.n.brill.civ@mail.mil, and Meredith Reed, (301) 
394-0603, meredith.l.reed.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Semiconductor Materials and Device Characterization: ARL has an interest in 
understanding fundamental materials and device properties of a host of semiconductor based 
alloy systems that encompass IR, UV, plasmonic, and topological applications. Interest lies in 
performing structural, electrical, optical, and chemical characterization and relating results 
back to models developed with the goal of significantly enhancing, or creating completely new 
capabilities. Some specific areas of interest include, time-resolved photoluminescence, pumpprobe measurements, angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy, magneto-transport, and gfactor measurements of topological materials. 
TPOC: Gregory Brill, (301) 394-0192, gregory.n.brill.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Fast optical switching: The Materials Campaign requires research in transparent 
nonlinear optical (NLO) materials, electro-optical (EO) materials, metamaterials, and in related 
components and devices that can reduce their optical transmission across the visible, NIR, 
SWIR, MWIR, and/or LWIR wavelength range passively, or actively when subjected to an 
incident laser beam within that wavelength range. Orders of magnitude of reduction of 
transmission are desired. Materials and devices must be highly transmissive in the initial state. 
Technical areas of interest include, but are not limited to, the following: 
(1) Development of optical materials with large nonlinearities and a broad wavelength 
and/or pulse-width response. This can include molecular modeling, material synthesis, and 
characterization of nonlinear parameters as well as nonlinear transmission studies to determine 
structure-property relationships to improve performance. 
(2) Modeling efforts to relate nonlinear material properties to their ability to effectively 
reduce transmission. Modeling effort should include details on how the nonlinear materials 
affect the propagation of incoming laser beams. 
(3) Development of active broadly tunable metamaterial structures and devices including 
modeling studies and characterization efforts. 
(4) Novel experimental techniques for characterization of nonlinearities, lifetimes, 
switching speeds, etc. 
TPOC: William Shensky, (301) 394-0937, william.m.shensky.civ@mail.mil. 
25
vi. Photonic and Integrated Photonics Devices and Modules: Research is encouraged 
pertaining to active and passive devices as well as fiber based technology for sensing, analog 
RF signal generation/processing, communication, data and optical signal processing. Active 
device research includes the development of bulk and integrated sources, modulators, detectors 
and waveguides, and the development of technologies for their integration into processor 
architectures. Active interface devices include semiconductor light emitting diodes (LED), 
lasers, photo detectors, solar cells, modulators, amplifiers and waveguides, with operation in 
the UV to IR spectral region, as well as integrated drivers and receivers. Also of interests are 
novel high-bandwidth (10s GHz) photonic devices, components, modules, and subsystems
which incorporate 𝜺 & 𝝁 near zero, or negative, metamaterials, high-contrast metastructures, 
photonic crystals, and/or other novel material concepts. Finally, there is strong interest in 
integrated photonic research to include on-chip processing, layout, mounting, and device 
cooling for one, two and three dimensional photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the following 
applications: chemical specific sensing, laser ranging and imaging, free space optical 
communications and radio-frequency photonics. 
TPOC: Weimin Zhou, (301) 394-1435, weimin.zhou.civ@mail.mil, and Holthoff, (301) 394-
0939, ellen.l.holthoff.civ@mail.mil. 
vii. Advanced Concepts for Chemical Specific Sensing Applications: ARL is exploring new 
and enabling detection technologies for human performance and hazardous material sensing 
applications. The ultimate goal of our research efforts is to develop low SWAP-C point sensors 
for these field applications. Desirable features of sensor systems include: high specificity in 
analyte identification, small in size for field portability, low power requirements, low cost, and 
stability for long periods of time under various environmental conditions. The several key 
sensor research thrust areas are integrated photonic transduction techniques, direct 
spectroscopic methodologies, recognition elements (e.g. Molecularly Imprinted Polymers), and 
health monitoring bio-marker identification. Our current research interests includes 
development of point and wearable embodiments using mainly optical techniques and 
technology, including photonic integrated circuits. The desired sensor technologies are not 
limited to these methods, but may use mechanical or other novel detection methods. Optical 
technologies include, but are not limited to, new optical sources and detectors for sensors, 
waveguide structures, optical resonantors, non-linear optics, Raman techniques, and 
fluorescence with specific emphasis on photonics devices in PIC platforms. 
TPOC: Ellen Holthoff, (301) 394-0939, ellen.l.holthoff.civ@mail.mil. 
k. Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) 
Precision Measurements and Control for Constrained Systems and Contested Environments: 
Research areas include methods, electronics and algorithms to enable robust state-estimation 
and control from distributed, heterogeneous, omnipresent, multi-aspect sensors; miniature 
navigation-grade inertial measurement units (IMUs) leveraging MEMS fabrication; sensor 
fusion architectures for distributed sensing with IMUs with alternative sensing modalities (e.g., 
26
vision) or other signals of opportunity; flexible and distributed anti-jam antenna solutions; and 
non-RF long range transmission of secure timing solutions. Also of interest are free-space time 
transfer via optical links, or RF links, chip-scale photonic based precision long-holding 
oscillator/clocks that may incorporate micro-resonators, integrated optical frequency comb, 
environmental insensitive cavities, as well as quantum/atomic based devices. The goal is to 
enable innovative solutions providing precision state-estimation, PNT solutions for GPSdenied and contested environments and extremely size, weight, power, and processing 
constrained systems to generate leap-ahead technologies by pursuing non-traditional materials, 
integration methods, and system architectures. 
TPOC: William Nothwang, (301) 394-1163, william.d.nothwang.civ@mail.mil, and Weimin 
Zhou, (301)394-1435, weimin.zhou.civ@mail.mil.
l. Energy and Power 
i. Wide Band-Gap Power Devices. ARL is seeking proposals for research of wide band gap 
devices in the following areas: 
(1) Device design and fabrication of monolithic and hybrid voltage-controlled SiC or GaN
high-temperature high-field power devices. 
(2) High-temperature high-field insulator materials for use as gate dielectric and field 
passivation layers for application to SiC and/or GaN power devices. 
(3) Advanced Technology Computer-Aided Design (TCAD) modeling methods, techniques 
and/or material models that advance computational efficiency or accuracy. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil, Aivars Lelis, (301) 394-5426, 
aivars.j.lelis.civ@mail.mil, and Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Heat Transfer and Thermal Management. Research and modeling in materials and 
techniques to remove high heat fluxes from power electronics, cool sensor components, 
improve efficiency of small energy converters, recuperate & repurpose waste heat energy, 
improve thermal system packaging, improve environmental control units, and understand 
multi-phase heat transfer fundamental mechanisms. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Microsystems power components and conversion: research in high power density, 
multifunctional components and sub-systems for capturing, transforming, converting and 
delivering power to compact systems or wearable technologies. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil. 
27
iv. Energy Science: R&D of novel materials and routes to energy. These could include 
development of alternative routes to fuel such as direct photoelectrolytic routes to hydrogen or 
energy, photovoltaic devices that have very high efficiency for development of devices suitable 
for portable power, can also include metamaterials that could be used in catalysis, high 
efficiency solar or waste heat to energy. Other routes for waste heat to energy include 
thermoelectric, pyroelectric, and thermo-photovoltaic devices. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil, and Cynthia Lundgren, (301) 
394-2541, cynthia.a.lundgren2.civ@mail.mil. 
v. Nuclear Detection and Sensors: Develop and study approaches that include compact 
sensors that can be arrayed for large area survey and data fusion. Investigate sensor element 
architectures that enhance system energy efficiency supporting 100 microwatt power level 
sources and increased performance of compact devices. 
TPOC: Marc S. Litz, (301) 394-5556, marc.s.litz.civ@mail.mil, and James Carroll, (301) 
3941411, james.j.carroll99.civ@mail.mil. 
m. Biologically Derived Sensor, Power, Device and Materials Research (MR) 
This effort is characterized by three main core competencies: the study of biological systems, 
synthetic biomaterials and biotic/abiotic interface science. These areas are used to build future 
technologies designed to increase situational awareness, reduce logistic loads and provide new 
capabilities in extreme operational environments. Goals include the development of 
revolutionary biological, photonic, electronic and organic- electronic hybrid devices and 
sensors. In an effort to capitalize on these advances, targeted investigations will be conducted 
in the following areas: 
 
i. Biosensors to either sense biology or sense with biology. 
ii. Synthetic recognition discovery tools including engineered biomolecular scaffolds through 
low cost cell sorting technologies. 
iii. Natural and synthetic metabolic network analysis including metabolomics, regulation, tools 
for building synthetic networks and predictive modeling. 
iv. Photonic and electronic devices that utilize or harness biology to function. 
v. Biologically derived power generation and storage. 
vi. Biological waste-to-energy / waste-to-commodity chemical conversion. 
vii. Biological / Bio-Hybrid / Bio-electronic materials that are built from biological 
structures or assembled/enabled by biological structures. 
28
viii. Bio/Abio Interface Science: Developing integrated bio-/abio materials and systems for 
organism / hardware interactions. 
ix. Computational Biology: Fundamental understanding of atomic and molecular properties and 
interactions (as bioinformatics and computational systems biology) enabling biological, biohybrid, and bio-mimetic materials and devices. 
x. Synthetic Biology: Engineer and construct modified biological systems to achieve 
unprecedented function and performance. This includes an effort in Living Materials to 
explore the novel concept of responsive materials imparting living functions for operation in 
Army relevant environments thus enabling disruptive capabilities, such as self-healing, 
adaptation, protection, and situational awareness. Interests include research to enable 
design and synthesis of materials both enabled by and including biological entities to 
provide these living functions. 
TPOC: James J. Sumner, (301) 394-0252, james.j.sumner4.civ@mail.mil. 
n. RF-to-THz Devices and Integrated Circuit Technology 
ARL is interested in research on innovative electronic substrate and epitaxial materials, devices, 
and monolithic circuits; and integration techniques for digital, mixed-signal, and RF, 
millimeter-wave to Terahertz (THz) applications, including radar, communications, EW, and 
sensor systems. Research should involve materials, devices, integrated circuits, and 
subsystems, built upon advanced Si-based, III–V, III-nitride, and II-VI materials, ultra-wide 
bandgap (i.e. diamond), novel device structures, nano-technology innovative circuit topology, 
and multi-level, and/or heterogeneous integration technology. The research may also include
related device, circuit, subsystem, and system level CAD modeling and analysis to achieve 
optimal performance.
TPOC: Ali Darwish, (301) 394-2532, Tony Ivanov, (301) 394-3568, 
tony.g.ivanov.civ@mail.mil, and Ed Viveiros, (301) 394-0930, 
edward.a.viveiros2.civ@mail.mil.
3. SCIENCES FOR MANEUVER (ScMVR) CAMPAIGN 
The ScMVR Campaign focuses on gaining a greater fundamental understanding of advanced 
mobility technologies that enable innovative vehicles configurations and subsystems 
architectures – critical to the future Army’s movement, sustainment, and maneuverability. 
Knowledge gained through these research efforts will lead to technologies for the design, 
fabrication, integration, control, and platforms support that will significantly improve Army 
power projection superiority. 
29
The ScMVR Campaign has developed three KCIs, four CCEs, and one ScMVR-related topic 
that are integrated to form a robust foundation to understand and overcome complex 
fundamental challenges associated with Energy and Propulsion; Platform Mechanics; Vehicle 
Intelligence; and Logistics and Sustainability. The campaign builds on fundamental pillars of 
science and engineering to conduct research in manned and unmanned Army air and ground 
vehicles. Discoveries and innovations made in this area will exert a significant impact on the 
Army of the future. 
a. KCI-ScMVR-1: Force Projection and Augmentation through Intelligent Vehicles 
ARL research is focused on developing fundamental understanding through greatly improved 
vehicle perceptual, learning, reasoning, communication and physical capabilities that will 
enable future unmanned vehicle systems operating in the air, on the ground, or in maritime 
environments. ARL’s goal is to facilitate effective intelligent vehicle interactions with Soldiers 
and the local populace that engender trust essential to forming efficient teams. Technological 
advances are envisioned to create the potential for affordable, interoperable autonomous and 
semi-autonomous systems that improve the effectiveness of Soldiers and units. Intelligent 
vehicles are expected to deploy as force multipliers at all echelons from squads to brigade 
combat teams. Future intelligent vehicles are expected to augment Soldiers and increase unit 
capabilities, situational awareness, mobility, and speed of action. ARL research is creating 
machine cognition as well as reasoning, learning and communication behaviors that can, in 
certain scenarios, replace the operator (driver or pilot) for future unmanned vehicles. Robust 
capabilities to analyze and assess research developments are also critical to inform research. 
ARL seeks proposals to further its technical goals which include, but are not limited to: 
i. Cognition architecture and supporting technologies to model the world in semantic terms, 
permit reasoning based on abstractions, and allow interactive communication with Soldiers 
using structural language; 
ii. Semantic labeling of an increasingly larger vocabulary of objects and behaviors to permit a 
richer, more detailed description of the environment (including determination of critical 
scene elements, actions and relationships to be remembered for future use in machine 
planning, learning and reasoning; recognition of changes in the physical and tactical 
environment as a cue to significant activity requiring reaction; and incorporation of 
contextual information and life-long learning into reasoning; 
iii. Capabilities to infer purpose from the relationships among objects in the environment and 
behaviors (activities) exhibited by people (teammates, adversaries, and non-combatants) and 
place objects and behaviors into context; 
iv. Enhanced capabilities to generalize and rapidly learn from a limited number of exemplars: 
monitor execution, identify conditions requiring reconsideration of plans and modifications 
of behaviors, and autonomously initiate re-planning processes; 
30
v. Enable machines to explain knowledge, actions and predicted outcomes to enable rapid 
redistribution of tasks between Soldier and robot, enhancing transparency and engendering 
trust by human collaborators; 
vi. Interactions with the physical world applicable to a broad range of scales, from 
Microsystems through larger tactical vehicles, which includes the ability to pick up and move 
objects, either upon semantic direction or their own initiative, and to maneuver in three 
dimensional space/terrain while negotiating obstacles in spaces that Soldiers cannot travel; and 
vii. Representative test-bed vehicles, both air and ground, on which to integrate, exercise 
and explore integrated component technologies at appropriate scales in relevant, 
reconfigurable environments. 
TPOC: Raghuveer M. Rao, (301) 394-0860, raghuveer.m.rao.civ@mail.mil, Mary Anne Fields, 
(410) 278-6675, mary.a.fields22.civ@mail.mil, Harris Edge, (410) 
278-4317, harris.l.edge.civ@mail.mil, Marshal Childers, (410) 278-7996, 
marshal.a.childers.civ@mail.mil, Christopher Kroninger, (410) 278-5690, 
christopher.m.kroninger.civ@mail.mil, Stuart Young, (301) 394-5618, and David Baran, (301) 
394-5613, david.baran2.civ@mail.mil. 
b. KCI-ScMVR-2: Advanced, Electrical Power Technologies and Components 
With the demand for higher efficiency and performance, the Army has traditionally migrated 
from mechanical systems to electronic systems. In the future, this evolution will be even more 
attractive and necessary as networked power management holds the promise of enabling 
additional capabilities, benefits and cost savings. The Advanced, Electrical Power 
Technologies and Components effort addresses the development of a broad spectrum of 
materiel and devices that will be required by Army systems developers in the coming years. Of 
special focus are high-voltage components that will accelerate the realization of compact, high
energy (sub-) systems. 
This research effort is expected to have the following Army impacts: 
• Improving mission effectiveness of Army platforms through the development of 
necessary energy and power underpinning devices and circuits that are required to 
enable electric-based component technologies. 
• Reducing logistics burdens through the development of more efficient electrical power 
generation, distribution, and conversion components and systems. 
This research effort will focus on pursuing advanced, electrical power technologies and 
components to enable efficient Army platforms. The goals of this work are to overcome 
barriers to realization of intelligent, solid-state alternatives to selected electromechanical 
components; components and techniques for improved thermal management of transient 
31
heating events in electronic systems; high voltage components based on advanced wide 
bandgap semiconductors; intelligent power conditioning modules and interfaces for power 
conversion and inversion; and induction-based, electrical energy storage devices that approach 
20 J/cc capacities. 
Specific research areas include: 
i. Power Conditioning. The Army is searching for innovative technologies and 
techniques for reducing the size, weight, cost, and logistics footprint of power conditioning 
systems across the full range of mobile and stationary Army applications incorporating energy 
networks. High efficiency and high temperature operation (for reduced cooling) are also 
critical requirements. Some specific areas of interest include: 
(1) Novel power converters. 
(2) Novel materials and designs for high-temperature power conditioning capacitors and 
inductors. 
(3) High performance components such as switches and capacitors. 
(4) Pulse-Forming Network (PFNs) and power conversion technology for lethality, 
survivability and directed energy capabilities and future high power and high voltage loads. 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Morris Berman, (301) 394-
4188, morris.s.berman.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Energy Materials and Components. Tactical Energy Networks. 
(1) Power lines sensing technologies are sought to determine types and specifications of 
loads and sources that cannot or do not provide the information directly Primary interest areas 
are sensors to collect information from a power line; techniques to analyze power line data; and 
methods to interrogate loads and sources through passive or active methods. 
(2) Advanced cognitive techniques are desired to allow real time adaptive operation and 
longer term predictive modeling to provide energy-informed operation of energy networks. 
Primary interest areas are technologies to enable machine-based decisions for stationary energy 
networks that utilize heuristics and cognitive techniques. A key goal is to provide learned 
behavior with input from external sources such as operational data, weather, maintenance and 
other factors. 
(3) Novel power conditioning components and control research in technologies are needed 
to allow efficient conversion of power between frequencies and voltages with the ability to 
scale system power levels based on needs. 
32
(4) Research in tactical energy communications and control technologies is also desired to 
include layered architectures comprising physical, data, and communication; exploration of 
technologies that interact between the information, energy, and warfighter domains. Key areas 
to include interfaces for micro-grids; hardware and distribution boxes; and M&S of operation 
and performance in multiple domains. 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301)394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Morris Berman, (301) 394-
4188, morris.s.berman.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Power Electronics Packaging. 
(1) High performance packaging materials, methods and systems are needed that enable the 
full performance level of wide bandgap power electronics. This includes high temperature (Tj 
> 200° C), high voltage ( > 10 kV), and high frequency (Mhz range) operation. 
(2) Integrated design techniques and modeling are sought that utilize co-engineering and/or 
co-design to improve power packaging by understanding the trade-offs among power density, 
reliability, thermal performance, and electrical performance. 
(3) Novel applications of standard additive manufacturing techniques as well as novel 
additive manufacturing techniques are desired to enable advanced and high performance power 
packaging. In addition, techniques and methods to functionalize structural, aerodynamic 
and/or other structures by integrating power electronics features are of interest. 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Morris Berman, (301) 
3944188, morris.s.berman.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-ScMVR-3: Discover and Advance Vertical Takeoff and Landing (VTOL) 
Innovations, Novel Concepts, and Ideas 
Innovative capabilities are needed to achieve higher vehicle speeds, improved hover efficiency, 
greater vehicle ranges, increased payload, and reduced maintenance to achieve performance 
attributes for future VTOL platforms. ARL conducts foundational aeromechanics research to 
enable future Army rotorcraft with performance capabilities that are currently infeasible. In 
addition, analytical and experimental capabilities to support development of advanced 
numerical methods and computational codes for assessing aero-elastic, aeromechanical, and 
structural dynamics performance are of interest. Technologies are sought to enhance 
maneuverability in complex environments at higher operating speeds without degrading hover 
efficiency. Fundamental technology analysis capabilities are also needed to model vehicles 
and their components. Research tools are also needed for understanding and developing 
capabilities that couple physics-based analyses to examine performance in full-spectrum 
military operations. 
33
ARL seeks proposals to (a) develop algorithms, methods, and tools for flight mechanics, 
dynamics predictions, performance assessment, and design space exploration of VTOL 
vehicles for sizes ranging from small unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to large vehicles; (b) 
develop new technologies to achieve revolutionary improvements in vehicle performance (such 
as active flow control and active structural shape control) to achieve revolutionary vehicle 
performance improvements across different flight regimes; and (c) explore innovative vehicle 
concepts for large VTOL platforms and micro/small autonomous air vehicles. Vehicle 
concepts may also exploit advances in the electric hybrid propulsion, multi-copter, and 
reconfigurable structure technologies. Novel proposal concepts from structural dynamics, 
aerodynamic performance, coupled fluids/structures, and/or nonlinear dynamics theoretic 
perspectives are relevant. 
ARL also seeks proposals exploring advanced actuation to achieve locomotion and flight, 
including associated methods of control. Advancements for actuators, mechanism fabrication, 
and new/novel materials are of interest. Actuated structures using such advancements may 
explore highly complex systems employing energy efficient mobility techniques (such as 
impedance matched actuation, variably tuned compliance, and adaptive morphologies). 
Proposals focusing on complex networked and distributed actuation techniques integrated into 
structures that provide multiple functions such as mobility, actuation, dexterity, structure, 
kinetic energy (KE) dissipation, or redirection are also of interest. Lastly, increasing system 
complexity paired with dynamic environmental operating contexts requires a transformation in 
engineering design theory, methods, and tools. Existing design engineering approaches are 
often inadequate to detect interaction complexities early in design, as they assume that a 
system can be described as a sum of its parts. 
TPOC: Rajneesh Singh, (410) 278-4022, rajneesh.k.singh.civ@mail.mil, Hao Kang, (410) 278-
6811, hao.kang2.civ@mail.mil, and Christopher Kroninger, (410) 278-5690, 
christopher.m.kroninger.civ@mail.mil. 
d. CCE-ScMVR-1: Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics 
The ScMVR CCE in Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics offers the 
opportunity to develop electrical power systems that provide the Army efficient electrical 
switching technology with advanced capabilities. This effort will be supported by the analysis 
and characterization of devices, improved understanding of wide band gap device performance 
and reliability, and advances in circuit topologies and control algorithms. The ScMVR CCE on 
Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics Research will focus on four areas: 
i. Advanced circuit simulation tools and methods that enable topology and device trade-off 
analyses for the design of extreme and/or novel power conversion and motor-control 
circuits in future Army applications. 
ii. Highly efficient circuit design for power electronics applications at voltage, temperature 
and power extremes. 
34
iii. Adaptive and predictive algorithms for motor control and power conversion. 
iv. Exploitation of extreme and/or novel operating modes of advanced wide band gap devices 
that result in performance gains and/or new capabilities. 
 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Wes Tipton, (301) 394-
5209, charles.w.tipton6.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-ScMVR-2: High-Power-Density and Energy-Efficient Engine and Drivetrain 
Technologies 
ARL advances fundamental sciences in engine and powertrain technologies to improve the 
performance, operational capabilities, and sustainment of Army vehicles. Power density and 
fuel efficiency are key engine parameters that directly influence vehicle capabilities in speed, 
range, and payload. Efficient and robust distribution of propulsive power enhances the 
mobility and survivability of military vehicles. ARL also investigates novel approaches for the 
efficient distribution of vehicle propulsive power routed from power plants to propulsive 
devices. Efforts under this core competency enabler include fundamental scientific research in 
combustion science, tribology and lubrication (including tribological surfaces/coatings, 
lubricants and manufacturing processes for improved power density and operation under 
starved lubrication in harsh environments); high temperature propulsion materials; multi-speed 
transmissions; innovative drive train technologies and concepts; and advanced engine 
technologies for ground and air applications. 
i. Fuel Spray and Combustion Science. ARL seeks proposals on fuel spray and 
combustion science. The Army is interested in technologies to increase engine power density 
and efficiency, while operating on a single fuel. In order to realize these technologies, it is 
critical to understand the fundamental physics and chemistry in energy conversion from fuel to 
mechanical power. The areas of research interest include, but are not limited to, high-resolution 
optical and laser diagnostics, optically dense spray diagnostics, supercritical sprays, 
conventional and alternative fuels, and high-fidelity modeling. 
TPOC: Jacob Temme, (410) 278-9455, jacob.e.temme.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Tribology and Lubrication in Power Transfer. ARL seeks research proposals in the area 
of high performance tribological interfaces transferring power from power-plants to thrust
producing devices for Army ground and air vehicles. At the fundamental level, interface 
science probing nanoscale composition, properties and behavior of surfaces and solid interfaces 
in power transfer devices is of interest. Also of keen interest is power transfer tribology 
investigating solid, liquid, gas, and mixed phase lubrication and wear phenomena enabling 
high performance, robust, and reliable mechanical component technologies. Research is 
sought in novel material systems and treatments applied to mechanical interfaces to provide 
enhanced life and step-function changes in power density and resistance to damage. 
35
TPOC: Brian Dykas, (410) 278-9545, brian.d.dykas.civ@mail.mil, and Stephen Berkebile, 
(410) 278-9547, stephen.p.berkebile.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. High Temperature Propulsion MR. ARL seeks research proposals on high-temperature 
materials and structures for advanced propulsion concepts that will improve engine 
performance and reliability while reducing weight and cost. Technical challenges include the 
development of engine and power conversion materials to enable unprecedented maneuver 
capabilities in degraded environments. Operating conditions for combustion engines include 
high temperatures (3000⁰F or above) as well as thermomechanical fatigue and creep resistant 
materials operating in sandy or salt-fog environments. Development of theoretical, physics
based models, and methods to assess process-structure-property relationships for complex 
materials (such as ceramic matrix composites, fatigue resistant fiber/metal laminates, and 
engineered metal alloys) are needed to achieve Army goals. The Army thrust for damage 
tolerant structures requires high fidelity material state awareness. Research capabilities to 
detail mechanical, thermal, and chemical behaviors of propulsion materials at high-transient 
elevated temperatures and harsh environments are in their infancy. High temperature sensors, 
thermal and chemical damage quantification, and life cycle analyses (including accurate and 
reliable material life prediction) are lacking. Research efforts toward design, manufacturing 
and insertion of materials-by-design for high-temperature turbomachinery are sought. 
TPOC: Muthuvel Murugan, (410) 278-7903, muthuvel.murugan.civ@mail.mil, and Anindya 
Ghoshal, (410) 278-7358, anindya.ghoshal.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Turbomachinery Science. ARL seeks proposals for adaptive turbomachinery 
component concepts that will enable high efficiency, high power density gas turbine engines 
for Army rotorcraft. Concepts are also sought for Unmanned Air Vehicle propulsion systems 
relying on VTOL. Research on smart materials based articulating or adaptive turbomachinery 
components that can enable improved engine stall stability margin and higher aerothermodynamic efficiency under off-design conditions is also of interest to the Army. 
TPOC: Waldo Acosta, (216) 433-3393, waldo.a.acosta.civ@mail.mil, Muthuvel Murugan, 
(410) 278-7903, muthuvel.murugan.civ@mail.mil, and Anindya Ghoshal, (410) 278-7358, 
anindya.ghoshal.civ@mail.mil. 
v. Drivetrain Research. ARL seeks proposals for innovative concepts for the distribution 
and transfer of propulsive power in Army vehicles such as helicopters, ground vehicles, and 
unconventional or unmanned small aircraft. Improved distribution of shaft work may be 
accomplished through novel technologies applied to bearings, gears, seals, shafts, splines, 
couplings, clutches, etc. Also, proposals are desired for hybrid drivetrains, lightweight electric 
machines and similar approaches that reduce mechanical interfaces for aircraft in power classes 
and configurations where commercial technology does not currently exist. 
TPOC: Brian Dykas, (410) 278-9545, brian.d.dykas.civ@mail.mil, and Waldo Acosta, (216) 
433-3393, waldo.a.acosta.civ@mail.mil. 
36
vi. Innovative Engine Technologies. ARL seeks proposals on innovative engine 
technologies to enable higher power density, higher efficiency, reduced signatures, multi-fuel 
capable, reduced cooling capacity, and more durable and reliable air and ground engines. 
Areas of research interest include, but are not limited to, advanced engine cycles, innovative 
new engine concepts, innovative component technologies, alternative fuels combustion, and 
engine analysis tools and modeling to advance the state-of-the-art technologies. 
TPOC: Kenneth Kim, (410) 278-9525, kenneth.s.kim11.civ@mail.mil, and Michael 
Szedlmayer, (410) 278-9020, michael.t.szedlmayer.civ@mail.mil. 
vii. Rotorcraft Propulsion. Proposals are sought to improve propulsion for helicopters and 
other rotorcraft, including advanced gas turbine engine and mechanical power transfer system 
technologies and concepts. Improved performance and reliability must be simultaneously 
achieved with reduced weight and cost. Research interests include basic adaptive technologies 
that can enable variable speed/torque engine and drivetrain capabilities, and adaptive 
thermodynamic cycles that create new design space for revolutionary propulsion systems for 
the Army. Analysis code and algorithm development (including nanoscale material modeling, 
nonlinear structural dynamics, fluid structure interaction, conjugate heat transfer, and related 
propulsion multi-physics modeling) is needed with along with experimental validation of 
analysis predictions. 
TPOC: Waldo Acosta, (216) 433-3393, waldo.a.acosta.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-ScMVR-3: Virtual Risk-Informed Agile Maneuver Sustainment (VRAMS) 
VRAMS is focused on discovery, innovation and transition of integrated health monitoring and 
maneuver capabilities to support the Army’s vision for zero-maintenance platforms. ARL 
goals are to automatically detect changes in functional states; advance design methodologies 
and methods for structures; analyze and characterize novel durable and damage tolerant 
materials and structures; and assess functionality in the context of upcoming or ongoing 
missions. Functional changes in structural components or sub-systems may include effects 
from structural fatigue, wear, damage, or age. The long-term goal is to integrate detected 
functional changes with data from on/off board systems for mission planning, maintenance 
schedules, and operations to compare readiness to mission demands. Additionally, system 
responses are envisioned to inform vehicle operations in real time on vehicle health and 
capabilities, and recommend operator control adjustments to subsystem responses to balance 
performance and integrity limits. 
Currently, the primary structural damage indicator is crack size. Damage detection 
technologies based on crack measurements provide accurate service life predictions towards 
the last 20% of remaining useful life for structures and components. Given detectable fatigue 
cracks appear relatively late in service life, it is often too late to perform remedial maintenance 
to prevent failures. Structural damage is known to also affect material mechanical properties 
such as stiffness or compliance, hardness, damping, residual stresses, acoustics, electrical and 
magnetic properties (such as resistivity, permeability and dielectric constants). ARL seeks 
37
research proposals that will investigate, identify, quantify, or correlate more reliable methods 
to detect damage much earlier in service life. Proposals are also sought to design and develop 
advanced structural materials (such as self-healing or stress strengthening materials) and 
concepts to advance extremely lightweight, adaptive, durable, and damage tolerant structures. 
While fault detection sensing capabilities and tailored signal processing algorithms have 
advanced, challenges also remain to efficiently detect damage when platforms are not in 
operation as well as real time when platforms are under complex operational loads. Research 
proposals in these areas are also of interest. 
ARL seeks proposals to reliably detect damage earlier, advance vehicle materials and 
structures, and develop health and usage monitoring system (HUMS) technologies. 
Fundamental understanding and models for damage progression are needed to reliably detect 
damage early and predict progression in complex multi-axial/multi-scale environments. 
Vehicle structure improvements are needed to reduce size and weight; improve reliability and 
affordability; reduce maintenance burdens; and sense early structural damage. As structural 
damage indicator research advances, concepts will also be sought to mitigate damage 
progression via real-time HUMS, risk assessments, and vehicle adaptive maneuvers. 
TPOC: Mulugeta Haile, (410) 278-5289, mulugeta.a.haile.civ@mail.mil, Asha Hall, (410) 
278-2384, asha.j.hall.civ@mail.mil, Mark Bundy, (410) 278-4318, 
mark.l.bundy2.civ@mail.mil, and Jaret Riddick, (703) 693-9141, jaret.c.riddick.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-ScMVR-4: Mechanics and Dynamics of Complex Systems 
ARL seeks proposals exploring directions for the mechanics and dynamics of complex ground 
and air systems scaled from microsystems to manned and optionally manned platforms. 
Primary areas of interest include fluid structure dynamics, mechanisms and actuation, and 
platform concepts. 
To achieve technology developments, research in fluid structure dynamics is critical to 
understand aero-elastic stability characteristics of advanced rotor structures. Modeling, 
simulation, and experimentation can be applied to understand fundamental aspects necessary to 
further develop, advance, and evaluate passive and active technologies for stability 
augmentation. ARL seeks proposals for understanding and predicting aero-elasticity of 
advanced platforms, and for developing passive and active technologies for improved platform 
aero-elasticity stability performance. From a dynamics perspective, research will advance 
mathematical treatments and decomposition techniques of complex fluid and coupled fluid
structure phenomena that go beyond energy based methods. Approaches will enable 
theoretical, numerical, and experimental modeling and control research in fluids and fluid
structure interaction problems that limit maneuver capabilities. 
Rotor blade-mounted aerodynamic actuators provide a means for individual blade control and 
have potential to reduce vibratory loads, reduce noise and improve performance for vertical 
flight vehicles. Blade-mounted actuation methods include both mechanical devices (such as 
38
circulation control and servo-flaps) and electrical control devices (such as piezo-electric or 
smart materials) which provide sufficient control authority under various operating conditions 
and environments. ARL seeks proposals to develop actuation mechanisms to achieve 
swashplate-less rotor systems as an enabler for high-speed vertical lift platforms. Additionally, 
proposals are also desired for M&S methods to evaluate such technologies are desired. 
ARL also seeks proposals that provide underpinning S&T that will allow the Army to detect, 
diagnosis, visualize, and model interactions from the component level up to the system-of
systems level for complex mobility systems being developed for the future. ARL anticipates 
that data informed design and decision making environment will be fully collaborative, 
multidisciplinary, real-time, and immersive by 2030. Capabilities stemming from proposals in 
this area are expected to allow technology developers, in interactive and tactile environments, 
to see how their technology integrates with a system, the effects of internal and external 
interactions on the system during operation, and probabilistic impacts on measures of 
effectiveness--all before any components of the system are manufactured. Research under this 
core capability enabler is also expected to enable the Army to determine where gaps exist in its 
technology development portfolio and help inform decisions and investments. 
Proposals addressing novel mathematical treatments of nonlinear dynamics and complex 
systems are also of interest to ARL. Proposed research is expected to be inherently 
interdisciplinary and should not be application driven. Theoretical underpinnings are 
particularly emphasized here rather than development of numerical methods. Examples of 
current areas of interest include spectral operator based approaches to reduced order modeling 
of multi-scale dynamical systems and fractional calculus perspectives on complex systems with 
emphasis on physical interpretations. Applicants need not be limited to these two examples. 
Furthermore, combined experimental and theoretical mechanics advances are encouraged in a 
variety of areas ranging from non-equilibrium phenomena and active matter, nanocomposites 
with engineered interfaces, self-assemblies, as well as novel solutions for overcoming 
pervasive challenges in aeromechanics (such as flow control or structural damping). 
TPOC: Hao Kang, (410) 278-6811, hao.kang2.civ@mail.mil, Eric Spero, (410) 278-8743, 
eric.spero.civ@mail.mil, and Bryan Glaz, (410) 278-8037, bryan.j.glaz.civ@mail.mil. 
Sciences for Maneuver (ScMVR) Related Topic: 
h. Maneuver System Trade Space Methodology and Tools 
ARL seeks proposals to model and examine the maneuver trade space of novel and evolving 
technologies for Army air and ground vehicles, both manned and unmanned. Quantitative 
approaches are sought to assess the benefits of emerging and existing technologies to inform 
strategic research directions. Proposals are needed to provide scientific understanding and 
technical foundation to develop maneuver concepts to achieve next generation capabilities. 
Proposals are sought in these areas: 
39
i. Methods to create and explore technology development trade space, including, but not 
limited to, manufacture, materials, integration, maneuverability, reliability, sustainment needs, 
and maintenance costs. 
ii. Methods to explore the design space and visualize multidimensional tradeoffs, beyond 
two-dimensional Pareto front and three-dimensional Pareto surface. 
iii. Methods to increase confidence that technology trade spaces are sufficiently bounded 
and populated. 
iv. Methods to estimate robust and reliable subsystem- and system-level optima based on 
technology uncertainties at the component level. 
v. Methods to predict long-term technology reliability and maintainability that 
component-level reliability improvements can have at subsystems, systems and fleets. 
vi. Methods to analyze the sensitivity of system capabilities to changes in design variables, 
requirements, and technologies. 
vii. Removal or reduction in subjectivity associated with weightings on measures of 
performance and effectiveness, as well as assessments of the sensitivity of stakeholder desires 
to system capability. 
TPOC: Eric Spero, (410) 278-8743, eric.spero.civ@mail.mil. 
4. INFORMATION SCIENCES (IS) CAMPAIGN 
The IS Campaign focuses on gaining a greater understanding of emerging technology 
opportunities that support intelligent information systems that perform acquisition, analysis, 
reasoning, decision-making, collaborative communication, and assurance of information and 
knowledge. Understanding gained through these research efforts will lead to technological 
developments that make it possible to manage and utilize information flows in the battlespace. 
Technologies resulting from these efforts will have a direct impact on the Information 
Supremacy of the Army of 2030. 
The IS Campaign has developed four KCIs, five CCEs, and one related IS topic that are 
integrated to form a robust foundation to understand and overcome complex fundamental 
challenges associated with Sensing and Effecting; Systems Intelligence and Intelligent 
Systems; Human and Information Interaction; Networks and Communications; and Cyber 
Security. The campaign builds on fundamental pillars of networks; advanced decision support 
aids; M&S of complex environments; and HPC to conduct research in areas including 
Intelligent Agents; Enhanced Tactical Networks; Effective Decision Support Aids; Knowledge 
40
Exploitation; and Cyber Defense and Forensics. Discoveries and innovations made in this area 
will exert a significant impact on the Army of the future. 
a. KCI-IS-1: Cyber Fire and Maneuver in Tactical Battle 
This research effort will focus on developing the models, methods, and understanding to 
overcome existing barriers to realization of effective cyber fires and maneuvers in a tactical 
environment. The goals of this work are to pursue near-autonomous detection and 
identification of malicious activity directed at friendly networks; methods to rapidly respond to 
adversarial activities; predictive characterization of network vulnerabilities; and a robust 
framework to assess networks. In addition, this research program will focus on realization of 
methodologies for the reliable reconfiguration of friendly cyber assets to evade or recover from 
attack; covert means for collection and predictive analysis of enemy actions; and 
methodologies to degrade or destroy adversarial cyber assets with high certainty and 
predictable probabilities of kill. 
TPOC: Jerry Clarke, (301) 394-1685, jerry.a.clarke4.civ@mail.mil. 
b. KCI-IS-2: Taming the Flash-Floods of Networked Battlefield Information 
This research effort will focus on developing the models and methods to overcome existing 
barriers to realization of analytical approaches to better understand the dynamics that 
characterize complex, multi-genre networks and the data generated by these networks. The 
goals of this work are to pursue quantitative models of information semantics trust and quality; 
methodologies to creating coherent information networks from distributed information sources; 
approaches to partially centralized and semi-autonomous control of large complex networks; 
and approaches to autonomously recognizing, modeling, and anticipating dynamic changes in 
network processes. 
TPOC: Brian Rivera, (301) 394-2298, brian.m.rivera.civ@mail.mil, and Stephen M. Russell, 
(301) 394-1017, stephen.m.russell8.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-IS-3: Acting Intelligently in a Dynamic Battlefield of Information, Agents, and 
Humans 
This research effort will focus on developing the models, methods, and understanding to 
overcome existing barriers for the realization of robust and reliable teams of intelligent agents 
and Soldiers in a squad. The goals of this work are to pursue concepts for processing largescale text and speech of low-resource languages; concepts for determining visual saliency in 
large scale imagery and video data sets; militarily-relevant pattern recognition and mapping 
methodologies; techniques to enable real-time decision-making; approaches to develop new 
world-models of recently encountered spaces; algorithms to infer relationships between 
disparate elements and events; and approaches to autonomously recognize, model, and 
anticipate dynamic changes in information processes. 
41
TPOC: David G. Baran, (301) 394-5613, and Reginald L. Hobbs, (301) 394-1981, 
reginald.l.hobbs2.civ@mail.mil. 
d. KCI-IS-4: Sensing and Information Fusion for Advanced Indications and Warnings 
This research effort will focus on developing the ability to shift the burden of technological 
complexity away from the user by relying heavily on making information sources such as 
sensors, social media, and communications more capable, easily assessable and interconnected. 
Fusion of multiple information sources, not only sensors, is essential and much of the program 
will be focused on foundational work aimed at facilitating the correlation of relevant 
information for display to the user. Fundamental research in the physical phenomenology of 
acoustic, electro-optic, electromagnetic, and seismic wave propagation is critical since it will 
lead to new sensing opportunities and sources of information, enable full exploitation of sensor 
data, and lead to realization of new sensors which can provide more robust input to fusion 
algorithms. 
TPOC: Raghuveer M. Rao, (301) 394-0860, raghuveer.m.rao.civ@mail.mi, Tom Walker, (301) 
394-0756, and Sandra Collier, (301) 394 2641, sandra.l.collier4.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-IS-1: Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere Environments 
The IS CCE on Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere Environments 
addresses the increasingly complex battlefields, in which the Army must be able to 
communicate; a highly dynamic, wireless, mobile networking environment populated by 
hundreds to thousands of networked nodes. Often, these environments are austere in terms of 
availability of resources for supporting and servicing the networking equipment. They are 
highly congested by multiple conflicting demands on bandwidth, and severely contested by a 
capable adversary. Research in networking and communications will address these multiple 
and complex challenges by pursuing the following overarching goals: 
i. Diverse, effective channels – traditional and non-traditional – will be available for
creating heterogeneous networks rapidly, predictably, and in a manner optimized for specific 
requirements and constraints of mission and environment, adapting intelligently to challenges 
of terrain, atmospheric conditions, local bandwidth congestion, and ensuring high performance 
along with energy efficiency and minimized probability of detection and interception by the 
adversary. 
ii. The networks will be driven, largely autonomously, but with appropriate degree of 
human control, by protocols and algorithms for control and processing of signal and 
information, as well as for self-organization of the network, that ensure persistent high 
performance of the network, consistent with dynamically changing missions, supportive of 
rapid reorganization and mobility of friendly forces, and highly robust against strong 
disruptions. 
42
iii. Survivability and defensive properties will be integral to the future network, making it 
inherently secure and survivable against disruptions by adversarial attacks such as jamming 
and other forms of interference, in part by minimizing probability of the communications and 
networks detection, interception, penetration and information exfiltration, as well as by 
responding to adversary actions by agile maneuver and recovery. 
The IS CCE on Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere Environments will 
provide underpinning technology for KCIs where it is critical to ensure communications 
remain reliable, robust and resilient in the face of disruptive effects such as task reorganization, 
mobility of friendly forces, and adversarial attacks on friendly networks in future tactical 
environments. 
TPOC: Dr. Brian Rivera, (301) 394-2298, brian.m.rivera.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-IS-2: Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Multi-Lingual Computing 
The IS CCE on NLP and Multi-Lingual Computing objective is to provide foundational 
understanding and applied theoretical methods to enable the rapid and precise automated 
translation and IE from documents regardless of language, dialect, or medium. Research in this 
area will address the issues such as: (1) Should one translate Arabic dialects to English directly 
or pivot through Modern Standard Arabic? (2) Is it easier to differentiate between Arabic 
dialects if they are written in Roman script or Arabic script? (3) Can crowd-sourced workers 
produce accurate dependency parse annotations with minimal training? (4) When building 
statistical machine translation (MT) systems for polysynthetic languages what degree of 
decomposition of words into morphemes is most effective? (5) To what extent do IE 
algorithms developed for English require fundamental changes to be successfully applied to 
Arabic due to inherent differences in language structure? (6) How do we develop an event 
ontology that will aid in detecting higher-order event-event relations? (7) How can we 
overcome the noise and special features of social media data without over-fitting our 
approaches to a particular media source (e.g., Twitter)? The strategic approach to these 
focuses include: 
i. MT of polysynthetic languages (e.g., Inuktitut) into English, Information Extraction 
(IE) algorithms for Arabic temporal expressions, events, and relations, protest domain ontology 
based on language of Twitter and adaptation of traditional IE software to language of social 
media. 
ii. Temporal and spatial linguistic cues and modified dialog management systems to 
support natural language communication between human and robots in a collaborative task. 
Event ontologies and NLP components to incorporate social media artifacts and document 
summarization for situational awareness. 
iii. A common multilingual semantic representation of a 3,000 word subset of spoken 
language frequently used by Soldiers in cross-lingual, cross-cultural encounters while enabling 
43
Soldiers and robots to collaborate effectively with spoken natural language communications 
comprising 80% of their interactions. 
NLP and Multilingual Computing supports KCIs by addressing underpinning science for 
information gathering and management, human-intelligent system interactions and intelligence 
and mission support tools. 
TPOC: Reginald L. Hobbs, (301) 394-1981, reginald.l.hobbs2.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-IS-3: Text and Video Analytics 
The IS CCE on Text and Video Analytics addresses how traditional video analytic methods is 
improved by introducing semantic cues using textual class-based attributes. This research 
addresses a large gap, namely how can text-based information be combined with video 
analysis. We propose to develop a new approach that incorporates textual class-based attributes 
to impact the accuracy of methods when traditional low-level video features do not perform as 
well as expected, as in action recognition. The convergence of text and video from a range of 
sources holds promise for allowing warfighters to exploit the incredibly large and growing 
sources of information streaming in, an understanding of which can be critical to decision 
making, and therefore safety and mission success. This exploratory research will make use of 
an event ontology to structure relationships between attributes, actions, events, and larger 
sequences of events. Three research foci will be emphasized: 
i. Leverage text within video for object recognition. 
ii. Transition these findings into the activity recognition. 
iii. Expand into highly complex sequences of actions to be able to infer implicit 
information which may not be explicit. 
The IS CCE on Text and Video Analytics will support KCIs by creating a path towards 
developing a deeper semantic representation of unstructured data, including reasoning for 
improved scene understanding using real-world knowledge that can make it easy for human 
analysts to quickly recognize important factors and relationships. 
TPOC: Clare Voss, (301) 394-5615, clare.r.voss.civ@mail.mil, and Heesung Kwon, (301) 394-
2501, heesung.kwon.civ@mail.mil. 
h. CCE-IS-4: Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation 
The purpose of the IS CCE on Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation is to advance the 
ability to accurately sense and forecast weather events that can significantly deviate from 
44
expected climatic norms, and to assess and mitigate their effects on Army personnel, systems, 
and operations. The following goals address this critical requirement: 
i. Establish capability to characterize near-surface heat, moisture, and momentum fluxes in 
rugged, complex terrain. Essential atmospheric data will be quickly, accurately, and 
automatically collected from a wide variety of ground- and air-based platforms. These data will 
be incorporated as new parameterizations into fine-scale Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) 
models to provide high-resolution temporal and spatial predictions. 
ii. Characterize interactions of hazardous aerosols with naturally-occurring atmospheric 
constituents. Develop low SWaP (Size, Weight, and Power) LiDAR/RADAR prototype systems 
capable of remotely-characterizing atmospheric parameters (i.e., wind, temperature, moisture, 
etc.) and aerosol composition. 
iii. Ingest atmospheric data seamlessly via “machine to machine” (M2M) interfaces into 
advanced modeling systems hosted on powerful, tactical-sized, high performance computer 
systems, even down to the smallest of mobile, Soldier-hosted hand-held devices. These models 
will be fully validated with quantified metrics to assess their accuracy. Apply Machine Learning 
techniques to fully exploit/data mine large atmospheric data sets.
iv. Translate weather forecasts from NWP models into highly-intuitive decision support 
guidance products tailored to meet a variety of mission requirements, depicting weather impacts 
on personnel, operations, and systems. 
The Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation CCE provides information and intelligence 
tools to be used as a force multiplier in intelligence and mission command decision support 
tools, artillery accuracy, Soldier health and performance, communications, sensing and imaging, 
and intelligent systems’ maneuvers. The underpinning science supports KCIs by providing 
environmentally context-aware, mission-relevant information. Friendly forces leveraging this 
technology will have vastly superior knowledge, when compared to our enemies, of the current 
and future atmospheric state, as well as its potential effects on personnel, systems, and 
operations. This work will provide strategic and tactical information for the Army of the future 
by providing Army-scale atmospheric predictions in complex, dynamic terrain and “megacity” 
dense-urban environments. This information will guide mission planning and execution in the 
field and inform intelligent systems, including smart energy systems, autonomous systems 
(ground and air), smart routing, and others, for real-time adjustments and maneuver capability. 
TPOC: Dr. Robb Randall, (575) 678-3123, robb.m.randall.civ@mail.mil.
i. CCE-IS-5: Sensors, Sensor Phenomenology, and Algorithms 
This CCE seeks to develop underpinning technologies that will provide the Army with a high 
degree of situational understanding against ground and airborne threats while operating in 
45
complex environments against adaptive enemy forces. The main objectives are to develop the 
necessary models, signal processing, prototype sensors and subsystems to support the next 
generation of situational awareness, air defense, and tactical sensing RADAR technologies. 
Research areas include: 
 
i. Forward looking synthetic aperture radar (SAR) for degraded visual environments 
(DVE). Research will develop laboratory-grade hardware, RADAR signal processing 
algorithms and physics-based computational models to demonstrate technologies associated 
with forward looking SAR concepts at the millimeter wave band for helicopters operating in 
DVE conditions to ensure situational understanding, navigation, and safe landing.
ii. Affordable COTS-based RADARs for Degraded Visual Environment (DVE): Research 
uses an affordable COTS framework to perform field measurements and analysis in order to 
define appropriate metrics for the multifunction DVE helicopter mission. The warfighter will 
benefit with situational awareness in environments obscured by weather (brownout and 
whiteout conditions) and other nearby obstacles. 
iii. Multi-band air defense RADAR: Research will focus on designing, developing, and 
assessing cognitive and adaptive RADAR architectures and components for Air Defense and 
Counter-Rockets, Artillery, and Mortar (C-RAM) missions. Other major applications include 
detecting small UAS using Doppler and micro-Doppler signature-based techniques. 
iv. Cognitive RADAR: Research will investigate various hardware and algorithmic 
approaches to develop techniques that enable continued RADAR operations in congested RF 
environments. Spectrum sensing, waveform design, machine learning, artificial intelligence, 
and agile and adaptive hardware solutions across multiple frequency bands are key research 
areas. 
TPOC: Anders Sullivan, (301) 394-0838, anders.j.sullivan.civ@mail.mil.
Information Sciences (IS) Related Topics: 
j. Electric and Magnetic Field Sensor Technology 
Research proposals are desired that are related to small, rugged, low-power electric- and 
magnetic-field sensors that can be deployed on a battlefield using artillery-based delivery 
systems, or scattered from air or ground vehicles, or emplaced by individual soldiers. These 
sensors should be passive or semi-active (i.e., with no local field-generating element), and may 
operate at low frequencies in the quasi-static zone (or "near field"), where the electric and 
magnetic fields are not coupled. These sensors should be characterized by exceptionally low 
power, size, weight, and cost, and/or by exceptionally high sensitivity and low noise (i.e., with 
performance limited by the background environment). Sensor bandwidth generally falls 
between DC and ~1 MHz, but may be further limited for specific applications: e.g., 0.001-10 
46
Hz for anomaly detection; 30-3000 Hz for electric-power sensing; 3-30 kHz for very low 
frequency (VLF) sensing.
Sensors should operate in an unattended mode, and should be able to detect, classify, identify, 
localize, and/or track tactically-significant targets, including ground vehicles (tanks and other 
tracked vehicles, and wheeled vehicles), air vehicles (fixed-wing, rotary-wing, unmanned aerial 
vehicles (UAV) / manned aerial vehicles (MAV), etc.), and/or other targets and events at 
tactically-useful distances. These other targets include, but are not limited to, armed individual 
soldiers, underground facilities, power and telephone lines, RF transmitters; other events 
including gunshots, mortar and artillery launches, and explosions. 
These sensors may be used individually or as part of a wide-area sensor array for surveillance, 
target acquisition, and/or engagement. While individual sensors may or may not have 
exceptional individual performance, their low size, power, weight, and cost should permit them 
to be used on the battlefield in ways not previously contemplated. Moreover, arrays and/or 
networks of such sensors are expected to provide new sensing capabilities and levels of 
performance simply not available today. 
Unattended surveillance sensors may be stationary or mounted on robotic platforms; these 
sensors will be integrated with local and networked signal processing and communications 
capabilities. They should operate unattended for weeks or months after deployment, and 
indefinitely with energy harvesting. The sensor output should be quantitative: e.g., analog 
voltage level(s) or digital word(s); it should contain target information, and possibly a 
confidence level, suitable for low-bandwidth transmission and/or inter-sensor fusion. 
Proposals will be accepted in seven areas: 
i. Research on novel electric- and magnetic-field sensor concepts leading to quantification 
of detection distance(s), classification, identification, localization, and/or tracking of various 
classes of targets. High-performance sensors should have exceptional sensitivity (limited by 
environmental noise), frequency and phase response, dynamic range (60 to 120+ dB), linearity, 
total harmonic distortion, hysteresis, cross-axis sensitivity, cross-modality sensitivity, etc. 
Arrays of sensors should be characterized by exceptional performance matching. Low-SWaPC sensing elements (field transducers), processors, and communication elements should each 
be chip-scale, use 1 nW to ~1 mW of power, and cost on the order of a few dollars.
ii. Research directed at environmental and/or platform noise reduction, and/or reduction of 
sensor front-end noise (particularly 1/f noise). 
iii. Research related to filtering and/or signal processing techniques, which are expected to 
improve the detectability of targets in a battlefield environment. Array processing, in-situ 
"imaging", and multi-modal processing are of particular interest.
47
iv. Computer-based modeling of targets and sensors that can provide a capability to 
perform trade-off analyses of sensor concepts during prototype design. 
v. Algorithms that can provide improved detection, classification, and/or identification of 
targets of interest in real-world environments. Proposed algorithms should be low-SWaP-C, 
portable to the Internet of Battlefield Things (IoBT), and usable in the Future Army Network.
vi. Resilient processing with performance that gracefully degrades in the presence of 
intermittent power, intermittent and/or unreliable networking, information assurance attacks, 
memory failures, and cosmic rays, etc.
vii. Proof-of-concept prototype design(s) of individual electric and magnetic-field sensors 
suitable for detecting tactically significant targets in battlefield environment. 
TPOC: Mr. David M. Hull, (301) 394-3140, david.m.hull6.civ@mail.mil. 
k. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
The Government currently collects more data than it can meaningfully process. This includes 
image and video data, structured data sets for a variety of combat and non-combat missions 
(e.g. health, maintenance, logistics, and operations), and various, stove-piped, unstructured, 
massive data sets that exist primarily in the form of text documents. The vast scale of data 
collection challenges human-driven/human-only solutions to collection and processing.
The goals of this work are to increase the government’s capacity to process that data by 
assisting and augmenting analysts through the application of artificial intelligence (AI) and 
machine learning (ML) algorithms, to include deep learning algorithms. Research will focus on 
experimental investigation and prototype development of AI/ML algorithms and capabilities. In 
addition, this research program will focus on helping analysts perceive and understand dynamic 
and unknown environments. Another research focus area includes the creation comprehensive 
models of real-world environments in which AI/ML entities facilitate course of action 
development by displaying intuition and improvisation characteristics in real-time, dynamic 
scenarios.
Elements of this research effort include new frameworks and tools for the creation of 
algorithms; tailored algorithms to perform discrete tasks, particularly in the fields of computer
vision and language; innovative AI/ML computational environments; new labeling techniques 
to generate massive scale annotated data for supervised deep learning techniques; new methods 
of edge computation to bring deep learning algorithms to constrained computational 
environments; methods to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of algorithmic approaches; 
interfaces for the display, search, and interaction with algorithmically derived metadata and 
tabular structured algorithmic output; new techniques, hardware, software, and tools for the 
training, testing, and validating of algorithms; and storage and indexing capabilities for local 
algorithmically-produced data.
48
TPOC: Michael Lander, (301) 394-2367, michael.d.lander2.civ@mail.mil.
l. Technologies for Spectrum Analysis and Control
ARL is interested in technologies that enable the use of electromagnetic (EM) energy to control 
the EM spectrum or attack the adversary while protecting our own EM systems against 
interference. Embedded in this goal are technologies that include EM spectrum sensing to 
enable situational understanding. ARL is accepting proposals addressing one or more of the 
following research areas:
i. Cognitive/adaptive: Technologies that enable EM capabilities or techniques to outpace 
an adversary’s tactical options, placing ourselves at a strategic position in the “observe, 
orient, decide, and act” (OODA) loop.
ii. Distributed/coordinated: Technologies that enable spatially and temporally diverse 
awareness, action, and response, leveraging the Army’s large number of low-cost and/or 
small platforms.
iii. Pre-emptive/proactive: Technologies that prevent or disrupt the adversary’s ability to 
engage our forces, by decisively impeding the “find, fix, track, target, engage, assess” 
process.
iv. Broadband/multispectral: Technologies including ultra-wideband and multi-band radio 
frequency front-ends, back-ends, antennas, receivers, and transmitters to enable agnostic 
detection and prosecution of adversary transceivers.
v. Interoperable/compatible: Technologies based on software-defined, standardized, nonproprietary interfaces, including waveforms, spectrum management, and protocols.
vi. Electronic protection: Technologies that ensure blue force protection from jamming and 
EM interference with minimal impact on system performance, or technologies that 
enhance system performance in complex congested and contested EM environments.
TPOC: Dr. Matthew B. Higgins, (301) 394-0849, matthew.b.higgins6.civ@mail.mil.
5. SCIENCES FOR LETHALITY AND PROTECTION (ScL/P) CAMPAIGN
The ScL/P Campaign focuses on gaining a greater understanding and discovery of mechanisms 
and on generating concepts and emerging technologies that support lethality and protection 
systems, and the mechanisms of injury affecting the warfighter. Knowledge and concepts 
gained through these research efforts will lead to technologies that enable a broad array of 
discriminate lethality systems as well as resilient protection systems and reduced incidents and 
severity of combat casualties. Campaign competencies and knowledge can support the Army 
through 2025, and the new technologies are essential for Lethality and Protection Superiority 
of the Army of 2030 and beyond. 
The ScL/P Campaign has developed five KCIs and two CCEs that are integrated to form a 
robust foundation to understand and overcome complex fundamental challenges associated 
with Ballistics and Blast; EW; and Battlefield Injury Mechanisms. Through this campaign, 
49
combinations of existing and new innovative technologies will be brought together through 
partnerships to realize disruptive system advances. These advances are driven by overcoming 
key learning and technical challenges required to further enable the 
Army of 2030 and beyond. 
a. KCI-ScL/P-1: Scalable Lethal Adaptable Weapons Concepts 
These efforts will provide continued lethal overmatch across the full range of weapons for both 
direct and indirect fires. Systems will be employed in expanding roles such as light and heavy 
armor with increased range and fire power as well as new lightweight manned and unmanned 
combat vehicles/systems and dismounts. New types of gun and missile technologies will be 
enabled with new launch mechanisms to deliver increased muzzle energies and new lethal 
mechanisms capable of defeating the toughest targets at reduced energy, reduced caliber, or 
reduced missile size while working with other research areas to provide necessary standoff 
range. Futuristic lethal mechanisms will be pursued and validated to provide a range of 
incapacitation effects against personnel and combat vehicles/systems. Disruptive energetic and 
propulsive materials will be investigated and tested to provide the Army with weapons with 
orders of magnitude enhancement in performance. 
This program will lead to unprecedented enhancements in lethality for the mounted and 
dismounted soldier against a spectrum of personnel and manned and unmanned ground and 
aerial combat systems. 
TPOC: Edward Kennedy, (410) 278-6055, edward.w.kennedy.civ@mail.mil. 
b. KCI-ScL/P-2: Desired Lethal Effects at Standoff Ranges in Constrained Environments 
The expected impact that this research will have on the operational Army’s capabilities in the 
2030 timeframe is significant enhancements in assured delivery of the lethal payload. Assured 
delivery implies that munitions will be brought to bear on the battlefield more precisely (lower 
collateral damage, reduced logistics burden), with more mission space (extended range, 
moving targets, defilade targets, smaller caliber weapons for lighter platforms), in a more 
complex environment (GPS denied, countermeasures) at low cost. 
Assured delivery of the lethal payload is underpinned by ballistic launch and flight sciences. 
Guided delivery is composed of two enabling technologies: maneuverability and navigation. 
Navigation provides information to understand the dynamic states relating the target and the 
munition and maneuverability is necessary to deliver the payload to the target. Goals are 
defined with these sciences and enabling technologies in mind. 
TPOC: Frank Fresconi, (410) 306-0794, frank.e.fresconi.civ@mail.mil. 
50
c. KCI-ScL/P-3: Soldier Lethality and Protection
Research will enhance our understanding of battlefield injury mechanisms, such as those due to
blast (e.g., injuries caused by shock waves, including accelerative loading and traumatic brain 
injury (TBI)), ballistic (e.g., impact of bullets, fragments and spall), and directed energy (e.g., 
injuries caused by laser and microwave sources). Research efforts in each of these mechanistic 
areas will yield scientific understanding and lead to new Army concepts. The long-term 
approach is to obtain a fundamental understanding of human injury and vulnerability deconvolved from the current Army solutions. 
The goal of this research is to provide a mechanism-based understanding of the human 
response to ballistic and blast insults that can lead to advances in protection sciences and
weapons development, thereby increasing Army capabilities. 
TPOC: Christopher Hoppel, (410) 278-8878, christopher.p.hoppel.civ@mail.mil. 
d. KCI-ScL/P-4: Adaptive and Cooperative Protection 
The operational threat environment that our troops face continues to grow in both capability 
and complexity. From near-peer adversaries to terrorist groups, the landscape is constantly 
evolving. The ability of our troops to exercise freedom of maneuver under these contested 
conditions will dictate mission success or failure. Developing a suite of technologies that 
provide the highest level of protection, in austere conditions, is the goal of this research. These 
efforts will result in transformational protection capabilities for Army platforms (ground, air, 
Soldier, and maritime) focused on increased levels of protection and the ability to rapidly adapt 
to new and unforeseen changes in threat environment at a reduced weight burden. 
This research effort combines technologies from across numerous disciplines to include 
technical intelligence, environmental sensing, dynamic threat characteristics, high speed signal 
processing, signature modification, and counter-measures in addition to conventional armor. 
All of these elements and combinations are linked through an intelligent agent to provide a 
real-time response decision that can proactively adapt. This methodology is capable of learning 
and applying new approaches as it evolves. An optimized combination of hard and soft 
protection techniques will provide a robust and redundant solution that will reduce inherent 
susceptibilities of current active protection systems to a variety of counter measures. It will 
also allow new techniques and responses to be deployed in real-time as dynamic software 
upgrades. This approach is seen as the only feasible means to maintain pace as the rate of threat 
evolution and proliferation is accelerated by globally available technologies such as digital 
design and additive manufacturing. The resulting advantages of this approach include; reduced 
weight when compared to current methodologies, increased reliability, ability to counter new 
threats in real-time and the ability to learn, adapt and improve. 
TPOC: Aaron Bard, (410) 278-4510, aaron.2.bard.civ@mail.mil. 
51
e. KCI-ScL/P-5: Disruptive Energetic Materials 
Improved models, concepts, and new energetic materials for propulsion are expected to provide 
enhanced range, speed of engagement, and maneuverability while maintaining weapons safety 
and surety. Additionally, game-changing energetic concepts with an order of magnitude more 
potential than conventional energetics are being pursued and are expected to enable new 
approaches to lethality, particularly when partnered with emerging accuracy and precision 
advances. 
These efforts will focus on the exploration and maturation of novel energetic and propulsive 
materials which are expected to provide revolutionary performance capabilities that are 
unachievable today. Research in this area seeks to understand very high energy density storage 
and release on desired timescales, methods to balance various parameters in energetic 
formulations, and prediction of formulation ingredient compatibility. 
TPOC: Jennifer Ciezak-Jenkins, (410) 278-6169, jennifer.a.ciezak-jenkins.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-ScL/P-1: Vehicle Protection from Kinetic Threats 
The ScL/P CCE in Vehicle Protection is a sustained effort to advance ballistic protection 
utilizing advanced materials, mechanisms, and manufacturing science to dramatically reduce 
overall vehicle weight while maintaining or improving protection against KE penetrators, 
Chemical Energy (CE) weapons and Underbody Blast (UB) threats. These CCE elements are 
closely coupled with the MR Campaign, emphasizing the cross-cutting nature, specifically in 
the areas of materials and manufacturing. 
For KE Protection, this CCE will develop new materials, ballistic technology, manufacturing 
technology, and adaptive technology to dramatically reduce overall vehicle weight while 
maintaining or improving protection against KE penetrators. For CE Protection, this CCE will 
develop new ballistic mechanisms; further develop existing ballistic mechanisms; explore new 
materials, hybrid adaptive techniques, and manufacturing technology to significantly improve 
vehicle protection against anticipated future threats; or dramatically reduce overall vehicle 
weight while maintaining protection against existing threats for a diverse range of CE 
penetrator warheads. In the area of UB Protection, this CCE will build and develop 
understanding of the driving mechanisms leading to, and mitigating, injury for the warfighter 
and vehicle platform; establish critical diagnostic capabilities to probe UB threat event 
phenomena; advance modeling capability for research, design, and analysis; and conceive 
innovative technologies for the mitigation of these threats. 
TPOC: Michael Keele, (410) 278-0215, michael.j.keele.civ@mail.mil. 
52
g. CCE-ScL/P-2: Terminal Ballistics and Blast Effects 
The CCE in Terminal Ballistics and Blast Effects is a sustained effort to advance the science 
base for mechanics and physics of weapon-target interactions. These technical areas include 
but are not limited to: shock physics and solid dynamics; fracture and failure of materials; 
interaction of solids with blast, electrical, and magnetic stimuli; detonation physics; and 
directed energy. To apply the greater understanding of fundamental sciences, which underpin 
weapon-target interaction, this CCE will develop coupled mesoscale poly-crystal model(s) with 
inter- and intra-granular mechanisms; develop and incorporate advanced diagnostic methods 
for relevant penetration experiments; develop and implement algorithms that provide electrical 
conductivities of low density gases using multiscale methods; apply formal Verification and 
Validation (V&V) methods and complete Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) assessment on 
tera/peta-scale simulation methods routinely used for protection technology development; 
develop and implement new analytical and computational methods for problems involving 
localization; assess coupling of structural and magnetic fields to protection relevant shock 
loading; implement robust methods for Modeling and Simulation (M&S) of energetic materials 
in response to shock stimuli; quantify relationships between structure, properties, and ballistic 
performance of armor ceramics. 
TPOC: Scott Kukuck, (410) 278-6026, scott.r.kukuck.civ@mail.mil.
6. HUMAN SCIENCES (HS) CAMPAIGN 
The HS Campaign focuses on identifying, creating, and transitioning scientific discoveries and 
technological innovations underlying Human Behavior; Human Capabilities Enhancement; and 
Human-System Integration that are critical to the U.S. Army’s future technological superiority. 
This campaign concentrates on high-risk and high-payoff transformational basic research; 
critically-focused, promising applied research; and selective advanced technology development 
that are expected to have revolutionary impacts on the Army’s warfighting capabilities. In 
addition to significantly improving the Army’s existing warfighting capabilities, it creates 
disruptive and game changing Soldier-centric technologies for the Army, while also preventing 
technological surprises from potential adversaries. 
The HS Campaign has developed three KCIs and four CCEs that are integrated to form a 
robust foundation to understand and overcome complex fundamental challenges. The campaign 
builds on fundamental pillars of science and engineering to conduct R&D in human behavior 
understanding; human performance augmentation; and manned and unmanned teaming. 
Discoveries and innovations made in this area will exert a significant impact on the Army of 
the future. 
53
a. KCI-HS-1: Robust Human and Machine Hybridization 
Strengthening the Reciprocal Coupling of Man and Machines integrates empirical and 
theoretical efforts to understand dynamic, complex human-system interactions and apply 
that knowledge towards the conceptualization of unique and novel human-system 
integration technologies. The research has three thrusts 1) examining closed-loop human 
adaptation to uncertainty with specific goals to develop descriptive, mechanistic, and 
predictive models of human short- and long-term adaptation within system contexts; 2) 
investigating robust brain computer interaction technologies with an initial goal to uncover 
methods and analytic capabilities that enable long-term, sustained performance while 
minimizing calibration and training requirements; and 3) conceiving of novel human-system 
interface technologies that increase the flow of information and meaning from intelligent 
agents system and Soldiers in complex socio-technical environments with an initial focus on 
novel multimodal interface technologies that enable greater understanding with less effort 
and training The critical challenge for human-system integration in future technologies will 
be the design of solutions that adapt their capabilities to maximize the human potential of 
the future Soldier. This effort seeks to identify general systems principles that operate across 
levels of analysis, providing a conceptual and modeling framework that captures human 
adaptation in ways that current models cannot. 
New methodological and analytical approaches will provide the core for technologies that 
revolutionize the direct interaction between Soldier and technology; increasing the bandwidth 
and effectiveness of information transfer, and shared understanding. 
TPOC: Jeremy Gaston, (410) 278-3644, jeremy.r.gaston.civ@mail.mil.
b. KCI-HS-2: Multi-Faceted Assessment of Soldier Variability 
The goal of this research is to provide the foundational elements for future Army systems to 
generate high-resolution, moment-to-moment, predictions of individual Soldier’s internal and 
external behavioral and performance variability in mixed agent team and social settings across 
training and operational environments through the use of multi-faceted sensing systems. This 
capability will provide the foundation for future Army systems to adapt to the individual 
Soldier’s states, behaviors, and intentions in real-time, which will provide our Soldier the most 
favorable conditions to train, engage in operations, and team with intelligent systems and 
personnel from the U.S. and other nations. Adaptive approaches will provide novel capabilities 
to decrease time-to-train, augment physical, cognitive, and social performance, and improve 
human-network interactions by providing robust predictions of Soldier state and intent to 
integrate with the network and are critical to the emergence of individualization of equipment 
and maximizing and sustaining both Soldier and unit peak performance during mission critical 
tasks. The research will focus on enabling high fidelity prediction that can account for 
continuous changes in Soldier’s physical, cognitive, and social states, such as stress, fatigue, 
task difficulty, trust, and situational awareness. The goal is to exploit the array of sensors and 
information streams that will be present in the operational environment of 2030 to predict 
54
Soldier variability with sufficient resolution and robustness to adapt systems in manners to 
directly enhance mission performance. The ultimate consumer of these technologies includes 
personnel across all three services both in the operational and medical domains. From U.S. 
Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) Pamphlet (PAM) 525-3-1: “Investments 
in maximizing human performance focus on achieving accelerated professional development; 
increasing cognitive and physical performance; developing Soldiers’ social and interpersonal 
capabilities; improving the overall health and stamina of personnel; and improving talent 
management. These efforts will improve the adaptability and endurance of Soldiers operating 
in a complex environment across the range of military operations.” This research is consistent 
with the following TRADOC Army Operating Concept for “Human performance” that 
improves the adaptability and endurance of Soldiers in a range of military operations. In 
addition, this research feeds several TRADOC Emerging Technology Focus areas: 
• “Grow Adaptive Army Leaders, Optimize Human Performance” by using continuous 
Soldier assessment. 
• “Maintain Overmatch” in the areas of protection, intelligence, and mission command. 
• “Continuously Upgrade, Protect, and Simplify the Network” by incorporating human 
state information to enable high degree of situational understanding and greater 
interoperability. 
Key research areas include: 
i. Approaches and algorithms to assess and predict non-linear human states that vary on 
multiple time scales across training and operational environments. 
ii. Techniques to leverage information about other individuals, sub-groups of individuals, 
and groups to improve prediction of an individual. 
iii. Techniques and fusion algorithms to interpret and predict non-stationary, human actions 
and behaviors in complex, dynamic, artifact-rich environments. 
This research will provide the foundational elements for future Army systems to generate high 
resolution, moment-to-moment, predictions of individual Soldier’s internal and external 
behavioral and performance dynamics in mixed-agent team and social settings across training 
and operational environments through the use of multi-faceted systems. 
TPOC: Amar Marathe, (410) 278-3638, amar.marathe.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-HS-3: Training Effectiveness Research 
TRADOC/Army Capabilities Integration Center predicts (Strategic Trends Analysis, May 
2014) predicts that by 2030 “the speed of events will unfold that will require the Army to 
rapidly respond (measured in hours and days vs. weeks and months) with an operationally 
significant force to protect vital national interests. Increased speed of information requires 
55
more rapid and discriminate responses to crises. Future crises require increased multinational 
and whole-of-government approaches; however, partner and interagency capacities may not be 
sufficient. The environment will be increasingly transparent due to widespread information 
technology (IT). Mission command must be capable of handling big data. Future land forces 
will require the capability and capacity to gain situational understanding of complex megacity 
environments (physical, human, and information). As technology exponentially advances, the 
Army will need to replace systems more rapidly to equip the future force in an effective and 
timely manner. “This environment will require a real-time integration and adaptation to rapidly 
deployed technologies (personally worn exoskeletons, distributed unmanned systems, and 
cyberwarfare systems). To address these requirements, this research will demonstrate a 
ubiquitous, reconfigurable, fully adaptive, synthetic training environment that can quickly and 
accurately assess learning requirements, while reducing time required for Soldiers and their 
units to attain job domain competency; increasing the rate of knowledge and skill retention; 
increasing the rate of training transfer for mission readiness; increasing user acceptance; and 
reducing overall lifecycle sustainment costs. 
The main goals of this research are to: 1) discover and delineate the relationships among 
training environment fidelity, level of training immersion, and Soldier/collective performance; 
2) create models of efficient training evaluation for the Army driven by relationships between 
training technologies/methods and training effectiveness; 3) determine relationships between 
training technologies and transfer of acquired knowledge, skills, and abilities to operational 
contexts, 4) optimize training for autonomous, intelligent systems; 5) determine 
multidimensional measurement with feedback methods and strategies for individual / unit level 
simulation-based training; and 6) demonstrate automated individual to unit measurement and 
feedback tools and technologies. 
TPOC: Joan Johnston, (407) 384-3980, joan.h.johnston.civ@mail.mil. 
d. CCE-HS-1: Real World Behavior 
Understanding human behavior in the real world is a core enabler to the HS Campaign. The 
Real World Behavior CCE is dedicated to translating laboratory-based research findings to real 
world contexts and environments. This is especially critical considering the extreme conditions 
under which Soldiers operate including extreme time pressure; physical stress; cognitive load; 
interacting individually or as a team with intelligent systems and agents; technical training; and 
mission preparation. These extremes are difficult, if not impossible, to replicate in a laboratory. 
Materiel and methodologies to measure and predict human behavior in real world 
environments will enable enhancements of human capability in real time during training or 
tactical operations. Understanding behavior in the real world will enable optimized humansystem integration at scales from millisecond-level interactions that are dynamic and reciprocal 
to social-level interactions with robotic and intelligent systems or agents. Creating this 
understanding of behavior in the real world will accelerate transition of research findings to the 
field, thus speeding the delivery of technology, and ultimately, capability to the Army. 
56
Core research areas include: 
i. Real-world complexity in HS research: real-world perceptual and cognitive complexity 
in the laboratory as a function of the characteristics of simulations that give rise to the specific 
real world behaviors required for effective interaction across training, analytic, and operational 
domains for both individuals and teams. 
ii. Assessing behavior in the real world via reliable and valid biological, neurological, and 
behavioral sensors that provide stable, computationally tractable data that are descriptive, 
diagnostic, and differentiating across the full-range of physical, cognitive, social, and 
organizational behaviors for application of augmentation and human-system integration 
approaches on multiple time scales. 
Execution of the research in this CCE includes development of sensors that can reliably detect 
and capture nuanced actions, gross motor movements, and brain activity outside the laboratory. 
Fast and efficient computational approaches also must be in place to handle the massive 
amounts data that will be collected. Finally, the behavioral data must be correlated to the 
context and to the environment to enable a meaningful and differentiating association to 
higher-level and militarily-relevant effectiveness measures for training and operations. 
TPOC: Arwen DeConstanza, (410) 278-5856, arwen.h.decostanza.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-HS-2: Augmentation 
Soldier cognition, perception, and physical performance can be augmented, aided, or protected 
by technology, or technology can impair Soldier performance if it is not designed, developed, 
and introduced in a way that is consistent with fundamental human capabilities and capacities. 
The goal is to augment Soldier capabilities such that they can surpass the baseline limits of 
performance. Through augmentation, a Soldier’s sensing and perceptual abilities can be greatly 
enhanced, thereby enabling the warfighter to sense and perceive the environment faster, more 
accurately, and more comprehensively. Augmenting cognitive capabilities that are matched to 
individual capabilities and tuned to the operational environment will enable greater resilience 
to the extremes of warfighting and support the attainment and sustainment of situation 
awareness and ultimately, agile, knowledgeable decision making. Innovations are also 
expected to enhance warfighter physical capabilities by balancing load, improving protection, 
and enhancing performance. 
Core research areas include: 
i. Perceptual Augmentation: the characterization and augmentation of the perceptual 
requirements of visual, auditory, and tactile signals in complex, dynamic, militarily-relevant 
environments derived from laboratory and field studies and forming the basis of guidance 
principles for the system development community. 
57
ii. Physical Augmentation: focus on ‘skin-out’ technology that may augment physical 
performance, and focus on advanced technology designed to increase the physical strength of 
the Soldier or increase their endurance. 
The objectives of this research are to understand and augment fundamental human capabilities 
across both short and long time scales. Under this CCE, research will be conducted to develop 
and assess the effects of augmentation technologies or approaches on Soldier performance 
through the evaluation of performance metrics and prediction of operational benefit for mission 
tasks ranging from marksmanship and load carriage to communications tasks, driving and 
navigating, and distributed decision making. Many augmentation technologies constitute a 
direct approach such as an exoskeleton, but other approaches may be via indirect means such 
as insertion or manipulation of imagery, symbology, or virtual characters by means of 
augmented reality techniques. 
TPOC: Jennifer Neugebauer, (410) 278-5926, jennifer.neugebauer.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-HS-3: Training 
The research in this CCE is vital to the investigation, demonstration, and advancement of a 
broad range of simulation technologies to enhance Army training, and the instantiation of 
learning methods to enable effective, efficient, and adaptive/tailored instruction at the point of 
need. 
This CCE includes a broad-based program of fundamental research and advanced technology 
development to achieve significant advances in Soldier training and, ultimately, mission 
effectiveness. The development of future training technologies requires advances in learning 
sciences, HS, human-system interaction, computer science, engineering and M&S. Execution 
of the training technology program is intended to produce high-payoff achievements in 
learning, retention, and transfer of knowledge and skills from the training environment to the 
operational environment. The end goal is to discover and innovate powerful new tools, 
technologies, and methods that can accelerate learning, can be applied at the point of need at 
any time and are affordable. 
Core research areas include: 
i. Intelligent and adaptive tutoring systems: Intelligent and adaptive tutoring systems for 
individuals and units that promote learning of structured and unstructured militarily-relevant 
domains and contexts. The goal of this research is to enhance the realism, adaptability and 
decision-making skills of artificially-intelligent computer-based tutors and virtual humans to 
support one-to-one and one-to-many training experiences, where human support is limited, 
impractical, or completely unavailable. Technical challenges include: (1) the development and 
application of intelligent agents that can adapt in complex, (2) ill-defined domains; (3) 
understanding natural language in multi-sided conversations with trainees; (4) rapid authoring 
of effective computer-based tutors for individuals and teams, and (5) realistic virtual humans. 
58
TPOC: Ben Goldberg, (407) 384-3903, benjamin.s.goldberg.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Authoring tools: Simulation technology relies on the underlying scenarios and content 
to deliver training objectives. In order to generate new scenarios, content, and simulations, 
authoring tools are needed. Ideally, these tools enable rapid, tailored, and effective training at
point-of-need. Key areas of research focus on authoring tools that are: (1) low-cost, (2) usable 
by non-technical personnel, and (3) capable of enhancing extensibility of training systems. 
TPOC: Matthew Hackett, (407) 384-5349, matthew.g.hackett.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Immersive Learning: Immersive learning includes but is not limited to, games and 
virtual worlds for learning as well as immersive collaboration environments and traditional 
simulations (otherwise described as virtual environments). We seek advances in virtual 
environment research that improves the sense of presence and engagement in a virtual 
environment, improves the realism of a virtual environment and the ability to visualize 
information, improves the user’s experience and within the environment, and provides the 
ability for multiple users to edit the environment on-the-fly a user should be able to easily 
replicate a concept within their mind without platform limitations). Potential display 
environments include traditional screens, head-mounted displays, large-scale displays, and 
mobile devices. The user interface should not limit but rather should augment the virtual 
experience by providing realistic feedback from experiences within the virtual environment. 
The interface should provide subtle environmental effects to the user and improve the user’s 
ability to navigate within the environment through natural means. 
TPOC: Tami Griffith, (407) 384-3636, tamara.s.griffith.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Virtual humans: Virtual humans allow for a highly realistic representation of a personto-person interaction, in a risk-free virtual environment. ARL seeks virtual human capabilities 
that are tailored and effective for supporting a full range of human-simulation interactions, to 
include one-on-one social interactions, and culture-specific interactions. Specific areas of 
interest include: (1) high-fidelity avatars; (2) advanced NLP; (3) conversational agents; (4) 
low-cost tools for creating and authoring virtual patients. 
TPOC: Roy Wall, (407) 384-3568, roy.f.wall2.civ@mail.mil. 
v. Live and Embedded Training (ET): ARL seeks research, development, and 
demonstration of live and ET technology to enhance training realism and effectiveness. Live 
training areas of interest include updated Non Line of Sight (NLOS) tactical engagement 
systems, MILES laser engagement systems, and improved indoor position, location, and 
tracking systems. ET is a capability designed into a Ground Combat System (GCS) and 
dismounted soldiers that enables the GCS and dismounted soldiers to provide necessary 
environmental and system feedback to train individuals, crews and units, and enhance 
operational readiness using the system’s operational equipment. Having a training capability 
integrated within the system’s operational equipment allows units to train anywhere and 
59
anytime, including while deployed. The goal is to enable more cost-effective training and 
mission rehearsal and accelerate ET into the current force. Pacing technologies include, but are 
not limited to: 
(1) Embedding training and mission rehearsal on current force vehicles, 
(2) Innovative methods for image generation and stimulated weapon sensors, 
(3) Methods to modify analog-based systems (brake, steering, direct view optics), 
(4) Embedded visual and display systems, and 
(5) Mounted/dismounted interoperable ET environments. 
TPOC: Latika Eifert, (407) 384-5338, latika.eifert@us.army.mil. 
vi. Medical Training: ARL has an interest in researching, developing, and demonstrating 
technologies, techniques, and strategies for immersing the military medical community into 
realistic, simulated military medical training environments for initial, transition, refresher, and 
sustainment training, including both individual and team training. Specific areas for 
consideration include: 
(1) Technologies to reduce or eliminate the use of live tissue and cadavers in military medical 
training, 
(2) Medical visualization and innovative display systems (e.g., autostereoscopic or 
holographic technologies), 
(3) Virtual patients and novel interaction capabilities, 
(4) Integration with existing warfighter simulations, 
(5) Medical training technologies that realistically simulate human trauma, 
(6) High-fidelity patient simulation technologies, 
(7) Simulated tissue with properties that approach those of live human tissue, 
(8) Olfactory and malodor simulation technologies, 
(9) Simulated body fluids and hemostatic agent training technologies, 
(10) Personal computer, game-based and mobile application training technologies, and 
60
(11) Methodologies that improve cost effectiveness and increase test scores as well as skill 
levels. 
TPOC: Jack Norfleet, (407) 384-3897, jack.e.norfleet.civ@mail.mil. 
vii. Synthetic Environments: Army simulation and battle command systems are 
transforming into highly integrated, distributed/collaborative One World Terrain tool suites 
that depend on accurate, timely geospatial data. Providing representations of complex 
environments is a critical element of models and simulations, requiring interoperability of 
heterogeneous simulation systems. The research emphasis is to provide the capability to 
represent the synthetic environment as realistically as possible to support the Army mission. 
Areas of consideration focus on synthetic environments representation and include: 
(1) Environment generation. 
(2) Environment representation. 
(3) Environment services. 
(4) Dynamic environments. 
 
TPOC: Julio De La Cruz, (407) 384-3733, julio.a.delacruz4.civ@mail.mil. 
viii. Dismounted Soldier Research: The Army needs advanced technology to provide 
dismounted Soldiers with fully immersive, simulation based training environments. ARL has 
an interest in researching, developing and demonstrating technologies and techniques for 
virtual immersion as well as next generation Mixed Augmented Reality (MAR) environments 
for dismounted Soldiers. ARL seeks to explore methods of presenting 2D/3D virtual objects 
(representing various targets, fire and effects, vehicles, etc.) to the dismounted Soldier while 
operating both indoors and outdoors. Additionally, the trainee would be capable of interacting 
with virtual targets, personnel, vehicles, etc. as though real. Specific technologies of interest 
include, but are not limited to: 
(1) Visual and display systems to include head mounted displays, 
(2) Computer systems, 
(3) Wireless tracking devices to include markerless tracking technologies, 
(4) Natural locomotion, 
(5) Wireless video/audio transmission, 
(6) MAR systems to include optically aided video odometry, 
61
(7) Accurate depth sensing and occlusion mapping, 
(8) Visual landmark detection technology, 
(9) Mission rehearsal, 
(10) Distributed AAR systems, and 
(11) Advanced synthetic natural environments. 
TPOC: Pat Garrity, (407) 384-3663, patrick.j.garrity4.civ@mail.mil. 
ix. Training Support Technologies: ARL is investigating innovative, license-free tools, and 
techniques to train and educate Soldiers and leaders in individual and team knowledge, skills,
attributes, and abilities in order to execute full spectrum operations in an era of persistent 
conflict. Specific areas of interest include: 
(1) Next-Generation Learning Management Systems, 
(2) Authoring tools that are user friendly with minimum train-up time and support the rapid 
development of learning principle-based content across several platforms (e.g. game-based, 
mobile, virtual worlds), 
(3) Content Management Systems that are data-driven and capable of taking doctrine, training 
requirements, historical records, and other user inputs, 
(4) Social Media and Social Networks for Learning in and out of the classroom, and 
(5) Other innovative learning technologies in support of the Army Learning Model. 
TPOC: Charles Amburn, (407) 384-3901, charles.r.amburn.civ@mail.mil, and Matthew 
Hackett, (407) 384-5349, matthew.g.hackett.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-HS-4: Humans in Multi-Agent Systems 
This CCE focuses on providing the critical technological breakthroughs needed for future 
Army multi-, mixed-agent teams across distributed network systems. These technologies must 
effectively merge human and agent capabilities for collaborative decision making and 
enhanced team performance; ensure that diverse teams of Soldiers comprehend new and 
critical information to maintain unprecedented situation awareness; and interact effectively 
with Soldiers and noncombatants to foster trust and gain community acceptance and influence 
across cultures and within complex, dynamic, politically sensitive environments. These 
complex multi-agent networked teams will enable faster and better informed decisions; reduce 
62
Soldier workload; provide otherwise unachievable levels of situation understanding and 
management; and maintain strategic and tactical advantages in future operating environments 
requiring the integration of cyber-human-physical dimensions. 
The objective of this research is to provide the critical technological breakthroughs needed to 
shape current and future networked operational environments consisting of Army multi-agent, 
mixed-agent (humans, robots, associate agents, and intelligent systems) in distributed network 
systems to: (1) effectively enable teaming among human, robotic, and mixed-agent capabilities 
for collaborative decision-making and enhanced team performance in dynamic, and complex 
socio-technical environments; (2) ensure that diverse teams of Soldiers comprehend new and 
critical information to achieve unprecedented situational awareness, while maintaining optimal 
information burden on individuals; and (3) interact effectively with Soldiers and 
noncombatants in civil military scenarios to foster trust and gain community acceptance across 
cultures, and within complex, dynamic, and politically sensitive environments; and visualize 
and understand the complex dense urban environment battlespace and the diverse sociocultural dynamics in a dense urban environment to allow Soldiers to effectively execute 
mission plans, sustain military forces, predict population behavior, and provide humanitarian 
support to civil populations. 
Core research areas include: 
i. Human-Agent Teams: the establishment and calibration of trust, the processes required 
for deep collaboration, and dynamic and individualized interactions. 
ii. Socio-Technical Systems: the networks required to support distributed, coordinated, 
and collaborative decision making across teams, with an emphasis on mission command and 
the cyber domain. 
iii. Socio-Cultural Influences: captured in virtual agents for training and operational 
contexts, the influences on decision making. 
This research results of this CCE will inform interface design for mission command, and 
distributed and collaborative decision making, and the cyber security domain, as well as 
informing organizational design. This research will examine and identify the reasonable limits 
of human processing of big data and multi-modal inputs. Efforts on human supervision of 
robotic assets will transition to fundamental research on teaming with remote and intelligent 
assets. 
TPOC: Norbou Buchler, (410) 278-9403, norbou.buchler.civ@mail.mil. 
63
7. ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT (AA) CAMPAIGN 
ARL’s Analysis and Assessment Campaign is focused on guiding the development and 
integration of technologies, substantially broadening the range of issues that can be addressed 
with analytical rigor, and improving the throughput and responsiveness of the analytical 
processes. This campaign builds on fundamental pillars of mathematics, statistics, physics, 
materials science, engineering, and chemistry to conduct SLV analyses in areas including 
Ballistic SLV, EW SLV, Cyber SLV, Personnel Survivability, Human-Systems Interface, and 
Complex Adaptive Systems. Efforts in these six analyses areas are the CCEs that provide the 
enduring technical thrusts to enable the analysis and assessment to be performed. 
The AA Campaign also has three KCIs related to the development of tools, techniques and 
methodology to support complex, multi-domain analysis and interactive situational analytical 
techniques. Accomplishing these aims will empower the Army RDT&E community with 
solutions that will be demanded by technological and strategic realities of today and the future. 
a. KCI-AA-1: Methodology for A&A of Complex Systems and Technologies Across 
Multiple Domains
The development of an A&A methodology for complex systems and technologies that 
addresses cyber and electromagnetic activities, swarming munitions, autonomous systems, and 
human-agent teaming, underpinned by a mathematical framework of complexity and emergence 
theory. The resultant methodology will integrate physics and engineering-based models with 
tactics, techniques, and procedures applicable to the assessment of systems of interest to 
understand the effects of specific technical parameters on mission outcome. The A&A 
methodology will also include advanced data analysis tools, which will generate the knowledge 
required by decision makers and others to fully assess the causes and implications of system 
performance within complex, multi-domain, and operationally relevant environments. The 
analysis tools will include appropriate measures of effectiveness and associated metrics of 
performance, as well as unique ways to visualize the results and intuitively appreciate their
impacts. This advanced analytical capability will provide detailed insight for the design and 
development of systems and technologies, as well as their integration with the operational force 
to produce the most resilient system.
The goal of this technical program is to enable integrated coherent analysis of the behavior of 
complex adaptive systems across multiple domains in a tactically realistic environment that 
includes advanced intelligent autonomous threats within the three components of either a 
system or cyber autonomous intelligent agent: the human component (as a designer, 
programmer, and/or partner); the system component (including hardware, firmware/software, 
and interface realms); and the algorithm component (including programming/coding, decision 
trees/matrices design, and machine learning areas). The focus of this initiative is the 
development of analysis and assessment methodologies based on a mathematical framework of 
complexity to address: (i) CEMA in the tactical environment; (ii) swarming munitions; (iii) 
autonomous and semi-autonomous systems; and (iv) human-intelligent agent interaction.
64
TPOC: Thomas Stadterman, 410-278-6295, thomas.j.stadterman.civ@mail.mil
b. KCI-AA-2: Visual, Interactive, Situational Analysis and Assessment 
The products of the Survivability, Lethality, and Vulnerability (SLV) analysis must be 
available in a timely manner, intuitively comprehensible, and demonstrably relevant to make 
them actionable. Implementing visual, interactive, situation-specific analysis will shorten 
development timelines, enable more informed acquisition decisions, improve operational 
training, and provide effective combatant decision aids. Collectively this will help insure 
dominance on the future battlefield. These tools will also help materiel designers, evaluators, 
and trainers to better equip and train the Soldier for this new challenge. 
This includes the development of an approach for visual (easy to understand), interactive 
(quickly available), situational (in the current location and relevant to the task at hand) analysis 
results to be produced. The speed and visual presentation will allow understanding of the 
results and how they are derived. The latter is important for establishing credibility, relevance 
and confidence. 
Through interaction, the user/operator can focus the simulation on relevant aspects to directly 
answer the questions being asked. This interaction focus naturally produces a “self-limiting” 
analysis process which eliminates unnecessary computation, yet produces detail where 
desirable. It allows broader questions to be addressed directly without sacrificing detail. This 
effort will create a goal oriented, cognition-driven analysis experience. This will provide 
Soldiers, materiel designers, evaluators and trainers with timely, comprehensible, relevant, and 
actionable information. It will make analysis products more accessible and valuable to the 
DoD community as a whole. 
Analysis domains could include one or more of the following: ballistics SLV, non-kinetic 
damage, cyber SLV, EW SLV, personnel survivability, and human terrain analysis algorithms. 
Meeting these various needs necessitates (1) Adoption of computational pipelines that take 
advantage of current computing hardware to execute needed analysis at interactive rates. (2) 
Coupling this with effective visual representations that facilitate cognitive understanding (3) 
Employment of computational steering techniques to allow simulations to be focused on the 
relevant aspects of the simulation. (4) Employment of a multi-disciplinary, collaborative 
approach to encourage participation by relevant experts in a variety of disciplines. 
TPOC: Lee Butler, (410) 278-9200, lee.a.butler6.civ@mail.mil. 
65
c. KCI-AA-3: Analysis and Assessment Methodology for Congested and Contested 
Operational Environments 
The subject KCI will develop the methodology for analyzing and assessing Army materiel in a 
contested and congested operational environment, and will identify the necessary capabilities 
to accomplish the aforementioned. The initiative will lay the groundwork for considering 
expanding complexity in the multi-domain battlespace and address emergent challenges 
associated with critical Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) priorities areas, such as 
hypersonics, directed-energy, artificial intelligence, and robotics. The effort will be further 
informed by participating in experimentation, prototype, and demonstration events critical to 
the success of the Army Futures Command. The future operational environments identified in 
TRADOC PAM 525-3-1, Win in a Complex World, includes operating in complex operational 
environments. Dense urban Environments (DuE) will be the most complex where cyberphysical-social complexity is most emergent.
 
Impacts on military operations will include limited or restricted lines of sight (LOS); 
congestion of structures, people, and traffic; constraints and bounds on electromagnetic effects 
and communications information (interconnectedness on a global scale); constraints on kinetic 
engagements, governance and control (including human sociocultural factors), target detection 
and acquisition, financial, and resource sourcing and allocation. These types of environments 
will induce unexpected synergistic effects and unanticipated emergence. Successful completion 
of this KCI will allow RDECOM to advance Survivability Lethality and Vulnerability Analysis 
and Assessment for congested and contested environments, thereby allowing the Army to be 
better advised in S&T, acquisition, and operational decisions.
The new methodologies will be used to assess systems slated for development in the Army 
Cross Functional Teams: Future Vertical Lift, Network C3 Intelligence, PNT, Synthetic 
Training Environment, Long Range Precision Fires, Next Generation Combat Vehicle, and 
Soldier Lethality. This KCI will involve the identification of specific phenomena, 
experimentation and data collection leading to development of relevant methodology for 
accelerating the production of requisite materiel that increases the lethality of our Soldiers. 
This KCI requires the participation of RDECOM support, and will require leveraging of 
products from all ARL Essential Research Programs, RDECOM acquisition programs, combat 
developers, the Army analyst community, and the Test and Evaluation community. 
TPOC: David Fordyce, (410) 278-6340, david.f.fordyce.civ@mail.mil, and Thomas Tenorio, 
(575) 678-6555, thomas.tenorio.civ@mail.mil. 
d. CCE-AA-1: Ballistics Survivability, Lethality and Vulnerability (SLV) 
The goal of the Ballistics SLV CCE is to leverage the science of threat-target interactions to 
identify and recommend techniques to reduce ballistic vulnerabilities, enhance system and 
complex target survivability, and ensure optimum effectiveness of the system in the full 
spectrum of battlefield environments and operations. Achieving the goal for this CCE enables a 
66
focus on discovering and mitigating SLV challenges in emerging technologies and in system 
designs throughout the acquisition life-cycle. Success in this endeavor requires the 
development, application, and sustainment of robust, efficient and accurate methodologies, 
tools and models to enable innovative analyses. Innovative scientific methodologies and tools 
are foundational to advancing our ability to identify, understand, quantify, and model the 
potential effects of both emerging and future weapons against fielded and developmental 
systems. 
Innovative methodologies, tools and analysis products that the AA Campaign develops will be 
transitioned, as appropriate, for use internally and to other DOD users who will be able to 
conduct complex analyses that meet their varied needs as new technologies mature and are 
applied to conceptual and developmental Army systems. The AA Campaign will provide 
subject matter expertise to perform early SLV analysis to “the left” for early SLV analysis and 
to “the right” for use in evaluation through the acquisition process as well as to operational 
users for mission planning purposes. 
The Ballistics AA CCE focuses on the following objectives that support the development of: 
i. Mature and scientifically rigorous products that enable ARL and other DoD users to 
interactively conduct complex SLV analysis throughout the acquisition timeline. This 
requires the development and application of computational techniques to deliver cuttingedge, modernized, faster, and higher resolution (in terms of both target geometry detail and 
the scale at which target-threat interactions are modelled) SLV analysis capabilities that will 
enhance core SLV models. 
ii. Robust, efficient and accurate methodology including approaches using or based on 
fully integrated high-fidelity multi-physics software–for estimating vehicle and occupant 
vulnerability to under-body blast threats. 
iii. Scientific tools, techniques and methods to enable lethality analyses of the effects from 
multiple ballistic impacts and from ballistic threats coupled with nontraditional directedenergy (DE) threat effects. 
iv. Vulnerability reduction techniques that can be applied to future technologies. 
v. Integrated ballistic SLV products and capabilities that provide a holistic understanding 
of the system or platform mission readiness. 
vi. Analytical and scientific methods for subterranean and megacity (SbT/MgC) 
environments that enable characterization of the response of building designs and construction 
methods to ballistic response of a city/infrastructure to ballistic threats impacts.
vii. Integrated ballistic SLV products and capabilities that expand efforts to illuminate 
multi-domain effects and answer multi-domain questions (e.g., combined EW, cyber, CEMA, 
and/or ballistics) in the same analysis.
67
viii. New techniques/methods to better display V/L data to complement cell plots to provide 
clearer, intuitive, higher-value delivery mechanisms for analysts, evaluators and assessors. 
TPOC: John Polesne, (410) 278-3353, john.t.polesne.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-AA-2: Cyber Survivability, Lethality and Vulnerability (SLV) 
Advancements in cloud computing and commercial-off-the-shelf technology and software 
increase the potential to add to or expand the number of unintended vulnerabilities in DoD 
systems and networks that adversaries can deny, disrupt, degrade or exploit. Advancements in 
nanotech computing, wireless, advanced robotics, autonomous, intelligent agent, cloud 
computing and other technologies as well as reliance on 3rd party commercial-off-the-shelf 
software will also increase the cyber-attack surface in DoD systems and networks. 
The AA CCE in Cybersecurity focuses on researching, developing and sustaining 
methodologies and analytical tools to plan and conduct cybersecurity assessments on 
technologies, weapon systems, information systems and networks. This sustained effort will 
enable the design, development and integration of secure technologies developed for or 
integrated into U.S. Army warfighting systems. To keep pace with the rapid evolution of cyber 
threats, U.S. military defensive cyber operations rely on cybersecurity assessments and 
analyses on technologies, systems and network architectures throughout the acquisition 
process. 
Continuous AA is critical to identifying and mitigating cyber vulnerabilities to ensure cyber 
resiliency across the acquisition enterprise. Cybersecurity is defined as the prevention of 
damage to, the protection of, and the restoration of computers, electronic communications 
systems, electronic communications services, wire communication, and electronic 
communication, including information contained therein, to ensure their availability, integrity, 
authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation. 
Nearly all defense systems incorporate IT in some form, and must be resilient from cyber 
adversaries. This means that cybersecurity applies to technologies used in weapons systems 
and platforms; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems; and information systems and networks. Cybersecurity 
is a critical priority for the DoD, and is a vital aspect of maintaining United States technical 
superiority. 
The AA CCE in Cybersecurity will focus on researching and developing cyber-attack 
techniques and tools to assess the security posture of emerging technologies; cyber 
vulnerability assessment and instrumentation tools leveraging advanced intelligent agents, data 
analytics, advanced visualization; malware reverse engineering and analysis; and security code 
analysis. 
TPOC: Anthony Castanares, (575) 678-3826, anthony.castanares.civ@mail.mil. 
68
f. CCE-AA-3: Electromagnetic Environment (EME) and Warfare 
The CCE in EW SLV focuses on research and analysis efforts to enable the development of 
tools, techniques, and methodologies to assess and evaluate the negative effects of adversarial 
attacks on Army electronic systems. Utilizing readily available commercial and Government 
off-the-shelf technologies, EW SLV investigations look for inherent susceptibilities that these 
and similar technologies may have when directed toward existing or future Army systems.
The A&A CCE in EW SLV will conduct research to enable analytical efforts investigating the
adverse effects and impacts on Army systems resulting from operations in a complex and 
dynamic battlefield Electromagnetic Environment (EME). Technological advancements in 
electronics, telecommunications, wireless technologies, sensors, lasers, and countermeasures 
that are commercially available are increasing unabated. The application of these technologies 
as both radio frequency electronic countermeasures (RFECM) and Electro-optical 
countermeasures (EOCM) to Army networks, communications, sensors, manned and unmanned 
platforms, and weapon systems is highly likely, given their advanced technical capabilities, 
general availability, and low costs compared to the Nation State sponsored technology 
developments in the past 30-40 years. Understanding how these technologies have the potential 
to adversely affect basic operation and mission effectiveness of Army systems will enable the 
Army to research, develop and apply mitigation strategies to counter these technologies and 
their associated effects. This research will enable the identification and mitigation of potential 
vulnerabilities to these technologies for both new and existing Army weapon, network, sensor, 
communication, and navigation systems. The A&A CCE in EW SLV enables the design and 
development of new, sophisticated, and cost effective analysis methods and tools for use during 
technology development, and throughout the acquisition life cycle, that can subject component, 
sub-system, and system level Army technologies to these stressing environments in systematic
manner in order to detect and mitigate potential vulnerabilities. Utilizing advanced techniques 
in EME modeling, generation, and measurement (including both the inherent EME and 
intentional EA), in coordination with modeling and instrumentation of Army systems, and using
laboratory, closed loop, hardware-in-the-loop (HWIL), anechoic chamber, and open-air range 
investigations; susceptibilities may be identified and mitigation techniques determined.
Strategic focus areas of the A&A CCE in EW include:
 Controlled environment (laboratory, HWIL, anechoic chamber) analysis development. 
 Counter-countermeasure development and analysis (threat EA mitigation techniques).
 Effects of emerging threats on autonomous systems (both airborne and ground based).
 Effects of emerging RFCM and EOCM threats on sensors (RF and EO/IR), manned and 
unmanned platforms, and Army weapon systems.
 Effects of emerging threats on position, navigation, and timing.
 Threat and commercial EME generation capabilities, signatures, and predictors of 
presence (threat technique generation and identification).
TPOC: Jose Gonzalez, (575) 678-5309, jose.m.gonzalez158.civ@mail.mil. 
 
69
g. CCE-AA-4: Personnel Survivability 
The Personnel Survivability CCE concentrates on the advancement of research and analysis to 
identify, understand, quantify, and model the effects of threat-target interactions on combat 
personnel, including injury assessment, performance, and operational effectiveness. Advances 
in research and experiments in the area of personnel survivability are foundational to the 
identification and development of scientific techniques to: 1) mitigate injury and enhance the 
survivability of Soldiers facing the wide range of battlefield threats, including ballistic, 
thermal, toxic substances, and less-than-lethal anti-personnel weapons; 2) enhance lethality of 
antipersonnel ballistic munitions; and 3) understand the effects of current and future weapons 
against personnel and protective systems. In addition to Soldier protection, Soldier 
survivability is assessed in terms of Soldier lethality, situational awareness, and the ability to 
effectively communicate and operate undetected when needed. 
This AA CCE in Personnel Survivability describes a systematic plan of multidisciplinary 
research that addresses critical questions about the nature of human injury mechanisms and the 
interactions of the Soldier with enabling technologies that provide protection, lethality, 
mobility, information, communication and concealment. It addresses adaptive behavior on the 
battlefield to increase survivability in a hostile environment and the development of 
methodologies and models to address critical questions surrounding these interactions and 
implications on Soldier survivability. 
ARL will apply these methodologies to identify the benefits and risks associated with new 
technologies prior to system design and integration supporting capabilities, such as Adaptive 
Soldier Architecture and trade space analysis of new individual Soldier and squad 
technologies. ARL will transition our products for use internally and to other DoD users to 
interactively conduct complex, credible analyses that meet their varied needs as these new 
technologies mature and are applied to conceptual and developmental Army systems. Using 
this approach we will extend our subject matter expertise in performing early SLV analysis to 
“the left” for early SLV analysis and to “the right” for use in evaluation through the acquisition 
process, as well as to operational users for mission planning purposes. 
The AA CCE on Personnel Survivability investigates and advances understanding and 
modeling the Soldier as a system to look at personnel survivability. Personnel survivability is 
characterized in terms of injury, degraded Soldier performance and capability with and without 
injury, and risks to long-term quality of life given injury. Because personnel survivability 
depends on enabling capabilities provided by a number of technologies, personnel survivability 
is studied in the context of the Soldier as a system, where Soldier lethality and the Soldiers’ 
ability to sense, communicate, and to operate undetected are also taken into consideration. 
The strategic approach includes: 
i. Fundamental and applied research projects to understand and quantify human 
survivability and performance to develop human injury and performance models. 
70
ii. Applied research to understand and characterize next-generation Soldier augmentation 
systems, protective systems, novel protective materials and future non-lethal and lethal systems 
that target precision, scalable effects and improved range, the ability to sense and communicate 
on the battlefield, and to operate undetected. 
iii. Development, maintenance, and application of SLV analysis capability that is 
adaptable, interoperable, and interactive; enables analyses of complex interactions in a 
mission/capabilities context, exploits emerging computation capabilities and can be used 
within a collaborative simulation. 
iv. Development, application, verification, validation, and transition of tools, techniques 
and methodologies for testing, analyzing, and evaluating Soldier performance and 
survivability. 
TPOC: Gregory Dietrich, (410) 278-2284, gregory.k.dietrich.civ@mail.mil. 
h. CCE-AA-5: Human Systems Integration (HSI) Modeling and Analysis 
The HSI Modeling and Analysis CCE focuses on developing and enhancing effective models 
and methodologies for predicting human, system of system, and mission capabilities throughout 
the acquisition cycle and supporting the Chief of Staff or the Army’s modernization priorities.
These efforts concentrate on identifying human capabilities and limitations within physical, 
perceptual, and cognitive areas to develop and inform methodologies; integrate the HSI 
domains; and develop technical, parametric system assessments.
The inclusion of physical, perceptual, and cognitive analyses to determine early, cost-effective 
insertion of HSI criteria, capabilities, requirements, and performance specifications within the 
acquisition process will optimize Soldier-System performance and reduce overall program cost 
at the system of systems level. It is important to continuously update relevant tools, techniques,
and methodologies to maintain their verification, validation, and utility for the tri-service user 
community. Application of these HSI methodologies will provide insight into the Soldiers’ 
capabilities and operation of systems, and will highlight issues and gaps that need to be 
addressed to achieve an overall balanced system design. The deployment and utilization of 
these tools, techniques, and methodologies must keep pace with increasingly advanced and 
shortened program acquisition schedules. Technologies for the development of rapid modeling 
tools and techniques, along with state-of-the-art immersive environments, will need to be 
pursued to accomplish these goals. Additionally, human performance data crucial to supporting 
development of acquisition requirements needed to assess future systems either do not exist, or 
are badly out of date and no longer apply to current system technologies. Studies and the 
resultant human performance data to support development of acquisition requirements, 
specifications, and early system analyses needs to be performed. Practical design and analysis 
tools need to be developed, deployed, and refined, so that HSI practitioners can make effective 
use of the human performance data to achieve the goal of optimizing Soldier-System 
performance and minimizing cost. 
71
The Analysis & Assessment CCE on Human System Modeling and Analysis investigates and 
advances the sciences relevant to two performance challenges: 1) identifying Soldier 
performance trade-offs on mission demands, environment, human characteristics, equipment,
and technology; and 2) understanding human factors that include sensing, perceptual and 
cognitive processes, ergonomics, biomechanics, and the tools and methodologies required to 
manage interaction within these areas and within the Soldiers’ combat environment. In 
developing and updating models resulting from an integrated HSI Analytic Tool Suite and 
techniques capable of predicting human, system, and mission capabilities, four research focus 
areas will be emphasized:
1. Identify, develop, and apply human performance measures of effectiveness and human 
figure modeling tools.
2. Integrate human factors, mathematics, statistics, and system engineering, to generate 
complex and critical task combinations that provide the necessary analytical data to 
support physical, perceptual, and cognitive workload assessment.
3. Develop a virtual environment to represent the Soldier as a system while considering 
physical effects, cognitive load, and demographic influences in the context of Soldier 
Systems Integration. 
4. Conduct research to support Capabilities Based Assessments, and develop requirements 
and performance specifications early on in the acquisition cycle to reduce cost. 
In performing system design analyses with integrated complex human performance behavior, 
the A&A CCE in Human Systems Modeling and Analysis aims to shape technology 
development and system design for the Army modernization.
TPOC: Jock Grynovicki, (410) 278-5956, jock.o.grynovicki.civ@mail.mil
i. CCE-AA-6: Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis 
The Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis CCE focuses on the improvement, application, and 
sustainment of research and techniques to model the performance of complex, adaptive systems 
at the engineering level to support the full range of force operating capabilities. These 
methodologies are crucial to the assessment of technology and system tradeoffs to illuminate 
and evaluate survivability aspects of competing capability packages and technologies.
The Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis CCE will enable analyses of the effects and impacts 
of the Army’s transformation in capabilities as a result of rapid, multi-faceted technological 
progress. Current Army analysis methodologies resulted from an era that contended with a 
much simpler set of analysis problems typically focused at the particular system or at the 
network levels. The Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis CCE will answer more complex 
questions, and thus provide the Army a significant leap forward in analysis techniques, 
methodologies, and mindsets by focusing at the area where all particular weapons, mission 
command, and other systems converge and merge their operations with the network levels, 
essentially at the larger combat formation echelons, company, battalion or brigade. For 
example, scientific advancements in information, computational, and human sciences have 
72
resulted in revolutionary advances in information processing, human-agent teaming, artificial 
intelligence and machine learning, distributed and cooperative engagements, and increasingly 
autonomous ground and air vehicles. The Army must identify, articulate, and develop new and
advanced analysis methods that can gauge how well the Army is taking advantage of new third 
offset capabilities, mitigating new threats posed by advancing adversary capabilities, and 
adapting to radically new contested environments. These methods will not be simplistic systemto-system comparisons, but must consider credible mission context and the environments in 
which the systems will operate with a complex, systems-of-systems environment. The 
proliferation of unmanned aerial systems, the challenges of dense urban environments, and the 
benefits and risks of manned-unmanned teaming all require enhanced analysis tools. Utilizing 
modern research in simulation, simulation languages, emerging mathematical techniques, and 
other advancements will improve capabilities to explore the continuum of military operations. 
The analysis methodologies will address the complexity inherent in interactions between 
systems, including humans and multiple, autonomous, and potentially intelligent learning 
machines. Analyses will also explore the rapid growth of adversary capabilities, in areas such as 
cyber and electronic warfare, due to advancing commercial technologies.
Strategic focus areas of the A&A CCE in Complex Adaptive Systems will incorporate:
1. Research from computational science and extramural basic research on advanced 
mathematical, statistical, and modeling and simulation techniques, such as predictive 
sciences, uncertainty quantification, advance computational algorithms, and data 
intensive techniques. 
2. Research from human sciences to explore the human dimension of future conflict, 
including human/machine interfaces and cognitive decision making processes.
3. Research from the information sciences regarding communication, processing, storage, 
and retrieval of information, for example research on digital RF technology.
TPOC: Arturo Revilla, (575) 678-3435, arturo.revilla.civ@mail.mil.
8. OTHER PROGRAMS: Visiting Scientist Program (VSP) 
The VSP supports short-term travel opportunities for foreign/ international scientists to the 
United States and to international conferences to socialize new S&T ideas or findings with the 
Army that support advancing basic research through collaboration. For additional information, 
contact the RDECOM International Technology Center at 
usarmy.blenheimcrescent.rdecom.mbx.rfec-atlantic@mail.mil. 
9. Translational Research Innovative Application Discovery (TRIAD) - This initiative 
is seeking research and development solutions in support of new technologies and translational 
research-based approaches that support the identification, alignment, and exploitation of 
applied research and technology to enable the Army of 2028 to be ready to deploy, fight, and 
win decisively against any adversary, anytime, and anywhere, in a joint, multi-domain, highintensity conflict, while simultaneously deterring others and maintaining its ability to conduct 
73
irregular warfare. Solutions sought in conjunction with this effort consist of innovationenabling technologies and approaches that will improve the Army’s ability to rapidly and costeffectively capitalize on global advances in the areas detailed below.
There are a number of technologies and approaches that touch more than one of the Army 
Modernization Priorities as well as other areas important to the Army. Advances in these areas 
may be highly disruptive since they could address multiple priorities or functions. Specialized 
capabilities and infrastructure needed to create, experiment with, validate and sustain long term 
research in these areas is of interest as well. Research areas of interest include, but are not 
limited to, the following:
a. Autonomous platforms – The Army is particularly interested in research in 
autonomous ground and air vehicles which must operate in open, urban and cluttered 
environments. Robotics and autonomous systems regardless of their missions require similar 
concepts and technologies including:
i. Ability to move in very cluttered, irregular, urban and underground terrains 
ii. Ability to move effectively in contested environments and survive attacks
i. Technologies to enable low electronic and physical profiles
ii. Techniques to allow operators to be trained quickly even for complex tasks
iii. Architectures to enable reprogrammable platforms under dynamic conditions
iv. Sensors to detect obscured targets and to characterize terrain obstacles
v. Autonomous ground and air structures, propulsion, and mobility components
vi. Technologies to significantly reduce logistical burdens 
b. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) - The Army is interested in 
AI/ML research in areas which can reduce the load on humans and improve overall 
performance in many areas. AI/ML research is needed in areas such as:
i. Autonomous, intelligent maneuver and behaviors of autonomous ground and air 
vehicles - object recognition, threat warning, etc.
ii. Ability to analyze large, diverse data sets to predict enemy intent and behaviors 
iii. Technologies to ensure robust, resilient and intelligent networking, cyber, electronic 
warfare and analysis of adversary signals
iv. Data analysis capabilities to engage with and exploit classified and unclassified sources
in order to produce enhanced intelligence products
v. Techniques to fuse data from disparate sources to improve a particular mission
c. Data visualization and synthetic environments – The Army is interested in research 
in research into concepts enabling improved situational awareness and the visualization and 
navigation of large data sets and to enhance training. Research is needed in the visualization of 
data in following areas:
i. Sensor data
ii. Large data sets
iii. Complex multi-source mode data sets 
iv. Novel visualization and synthetic environments approaches to enable improved training
v. Synthetic environments and networked instrumentation approaches for virtual-live 
validation of concepts and prototypes
74
d. Assured Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) – The Army is particularly 
interested in research in novel new PNT technologies which could be key enablers for many 
capabilities including autonomous vehicles, communications, and land navigation. Solutions 
that enable robust PNT on vehicles, Soldiers, munitions might include research on:
i. PNT technologies which operate reliably in GPS-degraded or denied areas which 
cannot be exploited by others
ii. Enhancements to commercial technologies to enable them to meet Army needs
iii. Robust security techniques for PNT at all levels
iv. PNT-enabled guidance and control
v. Algorithms and techniques to fuse data from multiple PNT sources to provide robust 
capabilities
e. Power generation and management technologies – The Army frequently must 
operate where power infrastructure is not available, on small vehicles or for individual 
Soldiers. Solutions that enable reliable power for vehicles, Soldiers, and munitions might 
include research on:
i. Novel new power sources
ii. Power management algorithms to optimize generation and usage
iii. Advanced low-power electronic technologies to reduce demand
iv. Compact power sources for small UAVs, robots, smart munitions
v. Technologies to understand, manage and reduce overall power use
f. Sensing – The Army is interested in having a detailed understanding of the 
environment and activities in areas it operates in. Research is needed in the areas of sensors 
and associated processing in order to:
i. Detect people, equipment, weapons, and any other object or action of interest 
ii. Detect all targets even when obscured
iii. Detect based upon, physical, behavioral, cyber or other signatures 
g. Communications & networks – It is critical the Army maintain secure, reliable 
communications for Soldiers, vehicles and at fixed locations even in austere environments with 
little or no fixed infrastructure. Research is needed in the areas related to following: 
i. Concepts and methodologies to enable robust networks
ii. Protocols
iii. Network interoperability including multi-national partners
iv. High efficiency components
h. Computation – The Army has a growing need for high performance computational 
capabilities to exploit large data sets and to perform complex AI/ML algorithms for many 
applications. Research is needed to improve networks and communications in the following 
areas: 
i. Throughput
ii. Power efficiency
iii. Edge computing
75
i. Space – Like many commercial interests, the Army is interested in exploiting space 
assets to solve a range of problems. Research is needed to improve space-based capabilities in 
the following areas: 
i. Concepts enabling persistent, high-resolution sensing of ground-based features, 
environments, and targets
ii. Concepts enabling low-cost access to space
j. Internet of Things (IOT) – The Army needs to better integrate a wide range of 
capabilities and equipment and capitalize on commercial developments in the industrial IOT.
The Army’s interested is driven in part by the fact that the amount of usable communication 
bandwidth on the battlefield will be dynamic, and as such automated reallocation of 
communication resources and information sharing strategies are more challenging than 
commercial ones. Research is needed to improve Army IOT in the following areas: 
i. New concepts, quantitative models and technical approaches enabling automated 
management of IoT. 
ii. New machine learning techniques that accelerate decision making are needed to address 
the scale/volume of IoT information and advance the science. 
iii. New approaches, low-complexity algorithms, and methods to enable IoT be secure, 
resilient, and to automatically manage and effect risk and uncertainty in a highly deceptive,
mixed cooperative/adversarial, information-centric environment. 
iv. Novel IoT approaches to enable improved training
k. Quantum Technologies – The Army needs to better employ quantum sciences in a 
number of areas to improve the performance and security of its future systems. Research is 
needed in the following areas: 
i. Quantum computing to solve highly complex problems I n real time
ii. Quantum sensing to achieve highly sensitive sensors and enable highly accurate 
navigation
iii. Quantum communications, and networking to enable highly secure and efficient 
information flow
l. Signature reduction – The Army needs to protect its Soldiers by making them harder 
to detect and locate. Research is needed to manage and reduce Army capability signatures in 
the following areas:
i. Technologies, methodologies and concepts to reduce the external signatures of Soldiers 
and of all Army platforms and equipment
ii. Capabilities to reduce RF, optical, thermal, acoustic, magnetic and any other signatures
m. Protection – The Army faces a number of current and future threats which it must 
address to protect it Soldiers. Research is needed to enhance Army capabilities for survival in 
the following areas:
i. Sensors to detect chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive threats
ii. Lightweight, easy to manufacture armor
iii. Cyber protection technologies, methodologies, and concepts to protect Army systems 
including Soldiers, platforms, networks, and munitions
76
n. Human Performance – The Soldier is the foundation of all Army capabilities. 
Technologies that reduce their mental or physical burden, allow them to react faster than their 
adversaries, to manage Research is needed to enhance Soldier capabilities in the following 
areas:
i. Human-machine interaction to insure autonomous platforms are efficiently managed 
and exploited
ii. Measuring effectiveness of and enhancing training tools and techniques
iii. Methodologies and approaches for effective augmentation of Soldiers in areas of 
cognition, perception, and physical performance 
o. Underpinning Methodologies - Methodologies, frameworks, tools, facilities,
techniques, and experimentation concepts, which underpin and enable advanced research and 
development in all of the areas of the TRIAD concept are of interest including those which 
enhance the abilities to:
i. Collect, standardize, transform, and maintain data to focus research and validate 
concepts
ii. Rapid model, develop and assess technologies across widely distributed research teams
iii. Integrate innovative technology applications into current or future warfighting systems, 
applications, and analysis systems to assess the potential operational effectiveness of novel 
new technology elements
iv. Automated data analytics tools and approaches that enhance discovery, development 
and transition management of technologies that address Army capability gaps
Questions regarding this topic must be submitted to the following address: 
usarmy.adelphi.rdecom-arl.mbx.aal-baa-questions@mail.mil.
(End of Section) 
B. Federal Award Information 
The ACC-APG-RTP Division has the authority to award a variety of instruments on behalf of 
ARL. Anticipated awards will be made in the form of contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements, technology investment agreements (TIAs), or other transactions for prototypes 
(OTAs). The ACC-APG-RTP Division reserves the right to select the type of instrument most 
appropriate for the effort proposed. Applicants should familiarize themselves with these 
instrument types and the applicable regulations before submitting a proposal. Following are 
brief descriptions of the possible award instruments: 
1. Procurement Contract. A legal instrument, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6303, which reflects a 
relationship between the Federal Government and a state government, a local government, or 
other entity/contractor when the principal purpose of the instrument is to acquire property or 
services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. 
77
Contracts are primarily governed by the following regulations: 
a. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 
b. Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 
c. Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFARS) 
2. Grant. A legal instrument that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a 
relationship: 
a. The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry 
out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law or the United States, 
rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government’s direct benefit 
or use. 
b. In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal 
Government and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the grant. 
c. No fee or profit is allowed. 
3. Cooperative Agreement. A legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used 
to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition "grant"), except that 
substantial involvement is expected between the Federal Government and the recipient when 
carrying out the activity contemplated by the cooperative agreement. The term does not 
include "cooperative R&D agreements" as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a. No fee or profit is 
allowed. 
4. Technology Investment Agreement (TIA). Assistance transaction other than a Grant or 
Cooperative Agreement (see 32 CFR Part 37). A legal instrument, consistent with 10 U.S.C. 
2371, which may be used when the use of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is not 
feasible or appropriate for basic, applied, and advanced research projects. The research 
covered under a TIA shall not be duplicative of research being conducted under an existing 
DoD program. To the maximum extent practicable, TIA’s shall provide for a 50/50 cost 
share between the government and the applicant. An applicant's cost share may take the form 
of cash, independent research and development (IR&D), foregone intellectual property 
rights, equipment, access to unique facilities, and/or other means. Due to the extent of cost 
share, and the fact that a TIA does not qualify as a "funding agreement" as defined at 37 
CFR 401.2(a), the intellectual property provisions of a TIA can be negotiated to provide 
expanded protection to an applicant's intellectual property. No fee or profit is allowed on 
TIAs. 
5. Other Transaction for Prototype (OTA). A legal instrument, consistent with 10 U.S.C. 237
1b., which may be used when the use of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is not 
feasible or appropriate for prototype projects directly relevant to enhancing the mission
effectiveness of military personnel and the supporting platforms, systems, components, or 
78
materials proposed to be acquired or developed by the DoD, or to improvement of platforms, 
systems, components, or materials in use by the armed forces. The effort covered under an 
OTA shall not be duplicative of effort being conducted under an existing DoD program 
(please refer to the “Other Transactions” OT Guide for Prototype Projects dated January 
2017 (Version 1.2.0)). This document, along with other OTA resources, may be accessed 
at the following link: http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/10USC2371bOTs.html.
6. Grants and cooperative agreements for institutions of higher education, nonprofit 
organizations, foreign organizations, and foreign public entities are primarily governed by 
the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. 2 CFR Part 200, as modified and supplemented by DoD's interim implementation found 
at 2 CFR Part 1103 
d. 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26, and 28 
e. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
f. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
7. Grants and cooperative agreements for for-profit and nonprofit organizations exempted from 
Subpart E—Cost Principles of 2 CFR Part 200, are primarily governed by the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. 32 CFR Part 34 - Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with ForProfit Organizations 
d. 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26, and 28 
e. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
f. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
8. TIAs are primarily governed by the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. 32 CFR Part 37 – Technology Investment Agreements 
d. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
e. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
9. OTAs are primarily governed by the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. Office of Secretary of Defense implementation guidance titled Other Transactions (OT) 
Guide for Prototype Projects 
10. The following websites may be accessed to obtain an electronic copy of the governing 
regulations and terms and conditions: 
79
a. FAR, DFARS, and AFARS: http://farsite.hill.af.mil/
b. Code of Federal Regulations: http://www.ecfr.gov 
c. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions: 
https://www.onr.navy.mil/Contracts-Grants/submit-proposal/grantsproposal/grantsterms-conditions.aspx 
d. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions: 
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=8 
(End of Section) 
C. Eligibility Information
1. Eligible Applicants
Eligible applicants under this BAA include institutions of higher education, nonprofit 
organizations, state and local governments, foreign organizations, foreign public entities, and 
for-profit organizations (i.e. large and small businesses) for scientific research in mechanical 
sciences, mathematical sciences, electronics, computing science, physics, chemistry, life 
sciences, materials science, network science, and environmental sciences. Whitepapers and 
proposals will be evaluated only if they are for fundamental scientific study and 
experimentation directed toward advancing the scientific state of the art or increasing basic 
knowledge and understanding. Whitepapers and proposals focused on specific devices or 
components are beyond the scope of this BAA.
For foreign public entities or foreign organizations, see Section II.C.3.a below for further 
information. There is no restriction on the place of performance for awards issued under this 
BAA. 
2. Cost Sharing or Matching
Generally, there is no requirement for cost sharing, matching, or cost participation to be 
eligible for award under this BAA. Cost sharing and matching is not an evaluation factor used 
under this BAA. Exceptions may exist if the applicant is proposing the use of a TIA or an 
OTA as an award instrument. Cost-sharing requirements may be found at 32 CFR 37 for TIAs. 
Cost-sharing requirements for OTAs may be found at Section C2.16 COST SHARING in the 
January 2017 document titled “Other Transactions” OT Guide for Prototype Projects. 
In addition, if cost sharing is proposed on a grant or cooperative agreement proposal submitted 
by a nonprofit or institution of higher education, the award will be subject to the restrictions at 
2 CFR 200.306. If cost sharing is proposed on a contract proposal, the award will be subject to 
the restrictions at FAR 35.003. 
80
3. Other 
a. Foreign public entities or foreign organizations are advised that security restrictions 
may apply that could preclude their participation under this BAA. 
b. Pursuant to the policy of FAR 35.017 and supplements, selected Federally Funded 
Research and Development Centers (FFRDC) may propose under this BAA as allowed by 
their sponsoring agency and in accordance with their sponsoring agency policy. 
(End of Section) 
D. Application and Submission Information
1. Address to View Broad Agency Announcement
This BAA may be accessed via the following websites: 
a. Grants.gov (www.grants.gov) 
b. Federal Business Opportunities (www.fbo.gov) 
c. ARL website http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?Action=6&Page=8. 
Amendments to this BAA, if any, will be posted to these websites when they occur. 
Interested parties are encouraged to periodically check these websites for updates and 
amendments. 
The following information is for those wishing to respond to the BAA: 
2. Content and Form of Application Submission
a. General Information
i. Preliminary Inquiries: The ARL receives several hundred research proposals annually. 
Because of financial constraints, we are able to provide support for only a limited number of 
the proposals received. We realize the preparation of a research proposal often represents a 
substantial investment of time and effort by the applicant. Therefore, in an attempt to minimize 
this burden, we strongly encourage applicants interested in submitting proposals to make 
preliminary inquiries as to the general need for the type of research effort contemplated, before 
expending extensive effort in preparing a whitepaper and/or detailed proposal or submitting 
proprietary information. The TPOC names, telephone numbers, and email addresses are listed 
immediately after each research area of interest and they should be contacted, as appropriate, 
prior to the submission of whitepapers or proposals. 
81
*NOTE: The Government will not be obligated by any discussion that arises out of preliminary 
inquiries. 
ii. Classified Submissions: Classified proposals are not expected. However, in an unusual 
circumstance the applicant may be notified that access to classified information and/or 
controlled unclassified information will occur under the work proposed. In those instances 
where a contract is awarded requiring access to classified information and/or controlled 
unclassified information, clause FAR 52.204-2 shall be in effect, as well as a DD254, if issued. 
For questions regarding the potential for access to classified information and/or controlled 
unclassified information, please coordinate with the TPOC for that topic area prior to proposal 
submission. 
iii. Use of Color in Proposals: All proposals received will be stored as electronic images. 
Electronic color images require a significantly larger amount of storage space than black-and
white images. As a result, applicants' use of color in proposals should be minimal and used 
only when necessary for details. Do not use color if it is not necessary. 
iv. Post-Employment Conflict of Interest: There are certain post-employment restrictions 
on former federal employees, including special government employees (18 U.S.C. 207). If a 
prospective applicant believes a conflict of interest may exist, the situation should be discussed 
with the TPOC listed in the BAA for their area of scientific research who will then coordinate 
with appropriate ARL legal counsel prior to the applicant expending time and effort in 
preparing a proposal. 
v. Statement of Disclosure Preference: In accordance with Section II.D.2.e.iii of this BAA, 
Form 52 or 52A shall be completed stating your preference for release of information 
contained in your proposal. Copies of these forms may be downloaded from the ARO web site 
at: http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=29, under "For the Researcher" (Forms, 
ARO BAA Forms). 
NOTE: Proposals may be handled for administrative purposes by support contractors. These 
support contractors are prohibited from submitting proposals under this BAA and are bound by 
non-disclosure and/or conflict of interest requirements as deemed appropriate. 
vi. Equipment (see instrument-specific regulations provided in Section II.B of this BAA): 
Normally, title to equipment or other tangible property purchased with Government funds vests 
with nonprofit institutions of higher education or with nonprofit organizations whose primary 
purpose is conducting scientific research if vesting will facilitate scientific research performed 
for the Government. For-profit organizations are expected to possess the necessary plant and 
equipment to conduct the proposed research. Deviations may be made on a case-by-case basis 
to allow for-profit organizations to purchase equipment but regulatory disposition instructions 
must be followed. 
82
b. The Application Process 
The application process is in three stages as follows: 
i. Stage 1- Verify the accuracy of your Unique Entity Identifier (formerly DUNS) at the 
Dun and Bradstreet (D&B) website http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform before registering with the 
System for Award Management System (SAM) at https://www.sam.gov. Prospective 
applicants must be registered in SAM prior to submitting an application or plan. The SAM 
obtains Legal Business Name, Doing Business Name (DBA), Physical Address, and Postal 
Code/ Zip+4 data fields from D&B. If corrections are required, registrants will not be able to 
enter/modify these fields in SAM; they will be pre-populated using D&B Unique Entity 
Identifier record data. When D&B confirms the correction has been made, the registrant must 
then re-visit sam.gov and click a “yes”' to D&B's changes. Only at this point will the D&B data 
be accepted into the SAM record. Allow a minimum of two (2) business days for D&B to send 
the modified data to SAM. 
ii. Stage 2 - Prospective proposers are requested to submit whitepapers prior to the 
submission of a complete, more detailed proposal. The purpose of whitepapers is to minimize 
the labor and cost associated with the production of detailed proposals that have very little 
chance of being selected for funding. Based on assessment of the whitepapers, feedback will be 
provided to the proposers to encourage or discourage them from submitting proposals. 
Whitepapers should present the effort in sufficient detail to allow evaluation of the concept's 
scientific merit and its potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission. 
iii. Stage 3 - Interested applicants are required to submit proposals. All proposals 
submitted under the terms and conditions cited in this BAA will be reviewed regardless of the 
feedback on, or lack of submission of, a whitepaper. If applicants have not submitted 
whitepapers, proposals may still be submitted for funding consideration. Proposals must be 
submitted in order for the applicant to be considered for funding. 
All proposals for Assistance Instruments must be submitted electronically through Grants.gov 
using Workspace. Proposals for Contracts may be submitted via either Grants.gov or email to:
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. See Section II.D.f of this BAA for information on the 
proposal submission process.
Requests for waiver of electronic submission requirements may be submitted via email to: 
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil or regular mail: 
Army Research Office 
ATTN: RDRL-RO (Proposal Processing) 
P.O. Box 12211 
RTP, NC 27709-2211 
83
All required forms for proposals may be downloaded from the ARO web site at:
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=29, under "For the Researcher" (Forms, ARO 
BAA Forms). 
c. Whitepaper Preparation 
i. Whitepapers should focus on describing details of the proposed research, including how it is 
innovative, how it could substantially increase the scientific state of the art, Army 
relevance, and potential impact. 
ii. Whitepapers are limited to seven (7) total pages; five (5) pages for whitepaper technical 
content, one (1) cover page and a one (1) page addendum as discussed below. Evaluators 
will only review the whitepaper cover page, up to five whitepaper technical content pages, 
and the one-page addendum. 
Whitepapers must be in the following format but do not require any special forms: 
• Page Size: 8 ½ x 11 inches 
• Margins – 1 inch 
• Spacing – single 
• Font – Times New Roman, 12 point 
iii. Combine all files and forms into a single PDF before submitting. 
iv. Format and content of whitepapers: 
(1) COVER PAGE (not to exceed one page): 
The whitepaper cover page shall include at a minimum: Title of the whitepaper, name of the 
individual and organization submitting the whitepaper, the research area and number against 
which the whitepaper is submitted, and the TPOC name. 
(2) TECHNICAL CONTENT (not to exceed five pages): 
(a) A detailed discussion of the effort's scientific research objective, approach, 
relationship to similar research, and level of effort shall be submitted. Also include the nature 
and extent of the anticipated results and, if known, the manner in which the work will 
contribute to the accomplishment of the Army's mission and how this contribution would be 
demonstrated. 
(b) The type of support, if any, the applicant requests of the Government, such as 
facilities, equipment, demonstration sites, test ranges, software, personnel or materials, shall 
be identified as government furnished equipment (GFE), government furnished information 
(GFI), government furnished property (GFP), or government furnished data (GFD). 
Applicants shall indicate any Government coordination that may be required for obtaining 
84
equipment or facilities necessary to perform any simulations or exercises that would 
demonstrate the proposed capability. 
(c) The cost portion of the whitepaper shall contain a brief cost estimate revealing all the 
component parts of the proposal, including research hours, burden, material costs, travel, etc. 
(3) ADDENDUM (not to exceed one page): 
Include biographical sketches of the key personnel who will perform the research, highlighting 
their qualifications and experience. 
v. RESTRICTIVE MARKINGS ON WHITEPAPERS: 
(1) Any proprietary data that the applicant intends to be used only by the Government 
for evaluation purposes must be clearly marked. The applicant must also identify any 
technical data or computer software contained in the whitepaper that is to be treated by the 
Government as limited rights in technical data and restricted rights in computer software. 
In the absence of such identification, the Government will conclude there are no 
limitations or restrictions on technical data or computer software included in the 
whitepaper. Records or data bearing a restrictive legend may be included in the 
whitepaper. It is the intent of the Army to treat all whitepapers as procurement sensitive 
before award and to disclose their contents only for the purpose of evaluation. 
Care must be exercised to ensure that classified, sensitive, and critical technologies are not 
included in a whitepaper. If such information is required, appropriate restrictive markings and 
procedures should be applied prior to submission of the whitepaper. 
(2) Applicants are cautioned, however, that portions of the whitepapers may be subject to 
release under terms of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.
vi. EVALUATION AND DISPOSITION OF WHITEPAPERS: 
(1) Evaluation Process: Applicants are advised that invitations for proposals will be made 
based on the whitepaper submission and the availability of funding. The whitepaper will be 
evaluated for the concept's scientific merit and potential contributions of the effort to the 
Army mission. Applicants whose whitepapers are evaluated as having significant scientific 
merit may be invited to submit a proposal. However, an applicant may submit a proposal 
despite not submitting a whitepaper or receiving a proposal invite from the Government. 
(2) Disposition Process: The applicant will be notified in writing after completion of the 
evaluation. Whitepapers will not be returned to applicants. 
d. Whitepaper Submission 
85
All whitepapers must be emailed directly to the TPOC. In the email subject line, include the 
phrase “Whitepaper Submission,” the BAA number W911NF-17-S-0003, and the research 
topic number from Section II.A of this BAA. Whitepapers submitted via email must be in a 
single PDF formatted file as an email attachment. 
e. Preparation of Proposals
i. COVER PAGE: 
(1) A Cover Page is required. For contract proposals submitted by email, use ARO Form 51. 
For all Assistance instruments and contract proposals submitted via Grants.gov, use the 
Standard Form (SF) 424 (Research and Related (R&R)) Form. Proposals will not be processed 
without either: (1) a signed Cover Page, ARO Form 51, or (2) a SF 424 (R&R) Form. 
(2) Should the project be carried out at a branch campus or other component of the applicant, 
that branch campus or component should be identified in the space provided (Block 11 on 
the ARO Form 51 and Block 12 on the SF 424 (R&R) Form). 
(3) The title of the proposed project should be brief, scientifically representative, intelligible to 
a scientifically-literate reader, and suitable for use in the public domain. 
(4) The proposed duration for which support is requested should be consistent with the nature 
and complexity of the proposed activity. Applicants shall discuss the preferred 
performance period with the TPOC. 
(5) Specification of a desired starting date for the project is important and helpful; however, 
requested effective dates cannot be guaranteed. 
(6) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 
[Section 31001(I)(1), Public Law 104-134] and implemented by 32 CFR 22.420(d), federal 
agencies shall obtain each awardees’ Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The TIN is 
being obtained for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amounts that 
may arise out of an awardees’ relationship with the Government. 
(7) Applicants shall provide their organization's Unique Entity Identifier (formerly DUNS). 
This number is a nine-digit number assigned by D&B Information Services. See Section 
II.D.3 of this BAA for requirements pertaining to the Unique Entity Identifier. 
(8) Applicants shall provide their assigned Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) 
Code. The CAGE Code is a 5-character code assigned and maintained by the Defense 
Logistics Service Center (DLSC) to identify a commercial plant or establishment. 
86
ii. TABLE OF CONTENTS: 
Use the following format for the Table of Contents. Forms are available at 
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=29 under "For the Researcher" (Forms, ARO 
BAA Forms). 
SECTION PAGE NUMBER 
Table of Contents A-1 
Statement of Disclosure Preference (Form 52 or 52A) B-1 
Research and Related Other Project Information B-2 
Project Abstract C-1 
Project Description (Technical Proposal) D-1 - D-
Biographical Sketch E-1 - E-
Bibliography F-1 - F-
Current and Pending Support G-1 - G-
Facilities, Equipment, and Other Resources H-1 - H-
Proposal Budget I-1 - I-
Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money(FCCM) (DD Form 1861) J-1 
Appendices K-
List Appendix Items: 
This format applies to all proposals submitted via email and via Grants.gov. Applicants' 
should show the location of each section of the proposal, as well as major subdivisions of the 
project description. 
iii. STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE PREFERENCE (FORM 52 OR 52A): Complete and 
sign ARO Form 52 (Industrial Contractors) or ARO Form 52A (Educational and Nonprofit 
Organizations). 
87
iv. RESEARCH AND RELATED OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION: Must be completed 
and signed by all applicants. 
v. PROJECT ABSTRACT: 
(1) The project abstract shall be completed on the form entitled “Publicly Releasable Project 
Abstract” found at the following website: 
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=218. 
(2) Unless otherwise instructed in this BAA, the project abstract shall include a concise 
statement of work and basic approaches to be used in the proposed effort. The abstract 
should include a statement of scientific objectives, methods to be employed, and the 
significance of the proposed effort to the advancement of scientific knowledge. 
(3) The abstract should be no longer than one (1) page (maximum 4,000 characters). 
(4) The project abstract shall be marked by the applicant as publically releasable. By 
submission of the project abstract, the applicant confirms that the abstract is releasable to the 
public. For a proposal that results in a grant award, the project abstract will be posted to a 
searchable website available to the general public to meet the requirements of Section 8123 
of the DoD Appropriations Act, 2015. The website address is:
https://dodgrantawards.dtic.mil/grants. 
vi. PROJECT DESCRIPTION (TECHNICAL PROPOSAL): The technical portion of the 
proposal shall contain the following: 
(1) A complete discussion stating the background and objectives of the proposed work, 
the scientific approaches to be considered, the relationship to competing or related research, 
and the level of effort to be employed. Include also the nature and extent of the anticipated 
results and how they will significantly advance the scientific state-of-the-art. Also, if 
known, include the manner in which the work will contribute to the accomplishment of the 
Army's mission. Ensure the proposal identifies any scientific uncertainties and describes 
specific approaches for the resolution or mitigation of the uncertainties. 
(2) A brief description of your organization. If the applicant has extensive government 
contracting experience and has previously provided the information to the ARL, the 
information need not be provided again. A statement setting forth this condition should be 
made. 
(3) The names of other federal, state, local agencies, or other parties receiving the 
proposal and/or funding the proposed effort. If none, state so. Concurrent or later 
submission of the proposal to other organizations will not prejudice its review by the ARL 
if we are kept informed of the situation. 
88
(4) A statement regarding possible impact, if any, of the proposed effort on the 
environment, considering as a minimum its effect upon water, atmosphere, natural 
resources, human resources, and any other values. 
(5) A statement regarding the use of Class I and Class II ozone- depleting substances. 
Ozone depleting substances are any substance designated as Class I by EPA, including but 
not limited to chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl chloroform, 
and any substance designated as Class II by EPA, including but not limited to 
hydrochlorofluorocarbons. See 40 CFR Part 82 for detailed information. If Class I or II 
substances are to be utilized, a list shall be provided as part of the applicant's proposal. If 
none, state so. 
(6) The type of support, if any, requested by the applicant (e.g., facilities, equipment, and 
materials). 
vii. BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH: 
(1) This section shall contain the biographical sketches for key personnel only. 
(a) Primary Principal Investigator (PI): The Primary PI provides a single or initial point of 
communication between the ARL and the awardee organization(s) about scientific 
matters. If not otherwise designated, the first PI listed will serve as the Primary PI. This 
individual can be changed with notification to ARL. ARL does not infer any additional 
scientific stature to this role among collaborating investigators. 
(b) Co-Principal Investigators: The individual(s) a research organization designates as 
having an appropriate level of authority and responsibility for the proper conduct of the 
research and submission of required reports to ARL. When an organization designates 
more than one PI, it identifies them as individuals who share the authority and 
responsibility for leading and directing the research, intellectually and logistically. 
ARL does not infer any distinction among multiple PIs. 
(2) The following information is required: 
(a) Relevant experience and employment history including a description of any prior 
Federal employment within one year preceding the date of proposal submission. 
(b) List of up to five publications most closely related to the proposed project and up to five 
other significant publications, including those being printed. Patents, copyrights, or 
software systems developed may be substituted for publications. 
(c) List of persons, other than those cited in the publications list, who have collaborated on 
a project or a book, article, report or paper within the last four years. Include pending 
publications and submissions. Otherwise, state "None." 
89
(d) Names of each investigator's own graduate or post-graduate advisors and advisees. 
NOTE: The information provided in (c) and (d) is used to help identify potential 
conflicts or bias in the selection of reviewers. 
(3) For the personnel categories of postdoctoral associates, other professionals, and students 
(research assistants), the proposal may include information on exceptional qualifications of 
these individuals that merit consideration in the evaluation of the proposal. 
(4) The biographical sketches are limited to three (3) pages per investigator and other individuals 
that merit consideration. 
viii. BIBLIOGRAPHY: A bibliography of pertinent literature is required. Citations must be 
complete (including full name of author(s), title, and location in the literature). 
ix. CURRENT AND PENDING 
SUPPORT: 
(1) All project support from whatever source must be listed. The list must include all projects 
requiring a portion of the PI's and other key personnel's time, even if they receive no salary 
support from the project(s). 
(2) The information should include, as a minimum: (i) the project/proposal title and brief 
description, (ii) the name and location of the organization or agency presently funding the work 
or requested to fund such work, (iii) the award amount or annual dollar volume of the effort, (iv) 
the period of performance, and (v) a breakdown of the time required of the PI and/or other key 
personnel. 
x. FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT, and OTHER RESOURCES: The applicant should include in 
the proposal a listing of facilities, equipment, and other resources already available to perform 
the research proposed. 
xi. PROPOSAL BUDGET (including DD Form 1861): 
(1) Each proposal must contain a budget for each year of support requested and a cumulative 
budget for the full term of requested support. Each budget year and the cumulative budget for 
the full term must be documented on ARO Form 99. ARO Form 99 may be reproduced, but you 
may not make substitutions in prescribed budget categories nor alter or rearrange the cost 
categories as they appear on the form. The proposal may request funds under any of the 
categories listed so long as the item is considered necessary to perform the proposed work and is 
not precluded by applicable cost principles. In addition to the forms, the budget proposal should 
include budget justification for each year. 
(2) A signed summary budget page must be included. The documentation pages should be 
titled "Budget Explanation Page" and numbered chronologically starting with the budget form. 
The need for each item should be explained clearly. 
90
(3) All cost data must be current and complete. Costs proposed must conform to the 
following principles and procedures: 
Institutions of Higher Education: 2 CFR Part 200 
 Nonprofit Organizations: 2 CFR Part 200 
For-Profit/Commercial Organizations: FAR Part 31, DFARS Part 231, FAR Subsection 
15.403-5, and DFARS Subsection 215.403-5. 
* For those nonprofit organizations specifically exempt from the provisions of Subpart E of 2 
CFR Part 200 (see 2 CFR 200.401(c)), FAR Part 31 and DFARS Part 231 shall apply. 
(4) Sample itemized budgets and the information they must include for a contract and for 
grants and cooperative agreements can be found at Section II.H of this BAA (Other 
Information). Before award of a cost-type contract or assistance instrument it must be 
established that an approved accounting system and financial management system exist. 
xii. APPENDICES: Some situations require that special information and supporting documents 
be included in the proposal before funding can be approved. Such information and 
documentation should be included by appendix to the proposal. 
(1) To evaluate compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 
A Section 1681 Et. Seq.), the Department of Defense is collecting certain demographic 
and career information to be able to assess the success rates of women who are proposed 
for key roles in applications in STEM disciplines. To enable this assessment, each 
application must include the following forms completed as indicated.
(A)Research and Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) form:
The Degree Type and Degree Year fields on the Research and Related Senior/Key Person 
Profile (Expanded) form will be used by DoD as the source for career information. In 
addition to the required fields on the form, applicants must complete these two fields for all 
individuals that are identified as having the project role of PD/PI or Co-PD/PI on the form. 
Additional senior/key persons can be added by selecting the “Next Person” button.
(B) Research and Related Personal Data form: 
This form will be used by DoD as the source of demographic information, such as gender, 
race, ethnicity, and disability information for the Project Director/Principal Investigator and 
all other persons identified as Co-Project Director(s)/Co-Principal Investigator(s). Each 
application must include this form with the name fields of the Project Director/Principal 
Investigator or any Co-Project Director(s)/Co-Principal Investigator(s) completed; however, 
provision of the demographic information in the form is voluntary. If completing the form 
for multiple individuals, each Co-Project Director/Co-Principal Investigator can be added by 
selecting the “Next Person” button. The demographic information, if provided, will be used 
for statistical purposed only and will not be made available to merit reviewers. Applicants 
91
who do not wish to provide some or all of the information should check or select the “Do 
not wish to provide” option. 
f. Submission of Proposals
Proposals must be submitted by email (only when a contract is requested) or through
Grants.gov. Proposals must be submitted through the applicant’s organizational office having 
responsibility for Government business relations. All signatures must be that of an official 
authorized to commit the organization in business and financial affairs. 
Proposal content requirements remain the same for both email and Grants.gov submission. 
i. EMAIL SUBMISSION (only when a Contract is the requested form of agreement): 
(1) Proposals requesting a Contract may be emailed directly to:
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. Do not email full proposals to the TPOC. All emailed 
proposals must adhere to the format requirements and contain the information outlined in 
Section II.D.2.e of this BAA. 
(2) The applicant must include with its proposal submission the representations required by 
Section II.F.2.a.i of this BAA. The representations must include applicant point of contact 
(POC) information and be signed by an authorized representative. Note: If the applicant’s 
SAM Representations and Certifications include its response to the representations a hard copy 
representation is not required with proposal submission. 
(3) All forms requiring signature must be completed, printed, signed, and scanned into a PDF 
document. All documents must be combined into a single PDF formatted file to be attached to 
the email. 
(4) Proposal documents (excluding required forms) must use the following format: 
• Page Size – 8 ½ x 11 inches 
• Margins – 1 inch 
• Spacing – single 
• Font – Times New Roman, 12 point, single-sided pages 
ii. GRANTS.GOV SUBMISSION (For all proposals requesting Assistance. Proposals 
requesting a Contract may be submitted either via Grants.gov or email) 
(1) Grants.gov Registration (See Section II.D.2.g below) must be accomplished prior to 
application submission in Grants.gov. 
NOTE: All web links referenced in this section are subject to change by Grants.gov and may not 
be updated here. 
92
(2) Specific forms are required for submission of a proposal. The forms are contained in the 
Application Package available through the Grants.gov application process. To access these 
materials, go to http://www.grants.gov, select "Apply for Grants,” and then select " Get 
Application Package." A Grant Application Package and Application Instructions are 
available through the Grants.Gov Apply portal under CFDA Number 12.431/Funding 
Opportunity Number W911NF-17-S-0003. Select “Apply” and then “Apply Now Using 
Workspace.” 
*NOTE: Effective 31 December 2017, the legacy PDF application package on Grants.gov will be 
retired and applicants must apply online at Grants.gov using the application Workspace. For 
access to complete instructions on how to apply for opportunities using Workspace refer to:
https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/workspace-overview.html. 
The following documents are mandatory: (1) Application for Federal Assistance (R&R) (SF 424 
(R&R)), and (4) Attachments form. 
(3) The SF 424 (R&R) form is to be used as the cover page for all proposals submitted via 
Grants.gov. The SF 424 (R&R) must be fully completed. Authorized Organization 
Representative (AOR) usernames and passwords serve as “electronic signatures” when your 
organization submits applications through Grants.gov. By using the SF 424 (R&R), proposers 
are providing the certification required by 32 CFR Part 28 regarding lobbying (see Section 
II.F.2.a.ii of this BAA). Block 11, “Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project,” must reference the 
research topic area being addressed in the effort by identifying the specific paragraph from 
Section II.A of this BAA. 
(4) The Attachments form must contain the documents outlined in Section II.D.2.e.ii entitled 
“Table of Contents”. All documents must be combined into separate and single PDF 
formatted files using the Table of Contents names. Include “W911NF-17-S-0003” in the title 
so the proposal will be distinguished from other BAA submissions and upload each document 
to the mandatory Attachments form. 
(5) The applicant must include with its proposal submission the representations required by 
Section II.F.2.a.ii of this BAA. The representations must include applicant POC information 
and be signed by an authorized representative. Attach the representations document to an 
available field within the Attachments form. Note: If the applicant’s SAM Representations 
and Certifications include its response to the representations a hard copy representation is not 
required with proposal submission. 
(6) The Grants.gov User Guide at: 
http://www.grants.gov/help/html/help/index.htm?callingApp=custom#t=Get_Started%2FGet_
Sta rted.htm will assist AORs in the application process. Remember that you must open and 
complete the Application for Federal Assistance (R&R) (SF 424 (R&R)) first, as this form 
will automatically populate data fields in other forms. If you encounter any problems, contact 
customer support at 1-800-518-4726 or at support@grants.gov. If you forget your user name 
93
or password, follow the instructions provided in the Credential Provider tutorial. Tutorials 
may be printed by right-clicking on the tutorial and selecting “Print”. 
(7) As it is possible for Grants.gov to reject the proposal during this process, it is strongly 
recommended that proposals be uploaded at least two days before any established deadline in 
the BAA so that they will not be received late and be ineligible for award consideration. It is 
also recommended to start uploading proposals at least two days before the deadline to plan 
ahead for any potential technical and/or input problems involving the applicant’s own 
equipment. 
g. Grants.gov Registration
i. Each organization that desires to submit applications via Grants.Gov must complete a onetime registration. There are several one-time actions your organization must complete in order to 
submit applications through Grants.gov (e.g., obtain a Unique Entity Identifier, register with the 
SAM, register with the credential provider, register with Grants.gov and obtain approval for an 
AOR to submit applications on behalf of the organization). To register please see:
http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/organization-registration.html
ii. Please note the registration process for an Organization or an Individual can take between 
three to five business days or as long as four weeks if all steps are not completed in a timely 
manner. 
iii. Questions relating to the registration process, system requirements, how an application 
form works, or the submittal process should be directed to Grants.gov at 1-800-518-4726 or 
support@grants.gov. 
3. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management (SAM)
a. Each applicant (unless the applicant is an individual or Federal awarding agency that is 
exempt from those requirements under 2 CFR 25.110(b) or (c), or has an exemption approved 
by the Federal awarding agency under 2 CFR 25.110(d)) is required to: 
i. Be registered in SAM prior to submitting its application; ii. Provide a valid 
unique entity identifier (formerly DUNS) in its application; and iii. Maintain an 
active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an 
active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal 
awarding agency. 
b. The Federal awarding agency may not make a Federal award to an applicant until the 
applicant has complied with all applicable unique entity identifier and SAM requirements. If an 
applicant has not fully complied with the requirements by the time the Federal awarding agency 
is ready to make a Federal award, the Federal awarding agency may determine that the 
applicant is not qualified to receive a Federal award and use that determination as a basis for 
making a Federal award to another applicant. 
94
4. Submission Dates and Times 
a. Proposals 
Proposals will be considered until and including the closing date of this announcement (see cover 
page of this announcement for opening/closing dates), except for special programs identified in 
this BAA that may announce specific opening/closing dates. Proposals submitted after the 
closing date will not be considered by the Government. 
b. Proposal Receipt Notices
i. Grants.gov: After a proposal is submitted to Grants.gov, the AOR will receive a series of 
three emails from Grants.gov. The first two emails will be received within 24 to 48 hours after 
submission. The first email will confirm time of receipt of the proposal by the Grants.gov system 
and the second will indicate that the proposal has either been successfully validated by the 
system prior to transmission to the grantor agency or has been rejected due to errors. A third 
email will be received once the grantor agency has confirmed receipt of the proposal. Reference 
the Grants.gov User Guide at:
http://www.grants.gov/help/html/help/index.htm?callingApp=custom#t=Get_Started%2FGet_Sta
r ted.htm for information on how to track your application package. 
For the purposes of this BAA, an applicant’s proposal is not considered received by ARL until 
the AOR receives email #3. 
ii. Email Submission: After a proposal is submitted to usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil, 
the AOR will receive an email confirming time of receipt of the proposal by the grantor agency. 
For the purposes of this BAA, an applicant’s proposal is not considered received by the grantor 
agency until the AOR receives the email confirming receipt of the proposal. 
 
5. Intergovernmental Review
Not Applicable 
6. Funding Restrictions
There are no specific funding restrictions associated with this BAA (e.g. direct costs, indirect 
costs, etc.). 
7. Other Submission Requirements
a. Information to Be Requested from Successful Applicants: Applicants whose proposals 
are accepted for funding will be contacted before award to provide additional information 
required for award. The required information may include requests to clarifying budget 
explanations, representations, certifications, and some technical aspects. 
95
b. For Contracts Only: Performance Work Statements (PWS). Prior to award the 
Contracting Officer may request that the contractor submit a PWS for the effort to be 
performed, which will be incorporated into the contract at the time of award. 
(End of Section) 
E. Application Review Information
1. Criteria
Proposals submitted in response to this BAA will be evaluated using the factors listed below (in 
descending order of importance): 
a. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of the proposal. 
b. The potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission and the extent to which the 
research effort will contribute to balancing the overall ARL research program. 
c. The applicant's capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques, or unique combinations 
of these, which are integral factors for achieving the proposed objectives. 
d. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team leader, or other key 
personnel who are critical to achievement of the proposed objectives. 
e. The applicant's record of past performance. 
**NOTE: Cost sharing will not be considered in the evaluation. 
2. Review and Selection Process
a. Upon receipt of a proposal, the ARL staff will perform an initial review of its scientific 
merit and potential contribution to the Army mission, and also determine if funds are expected to 
be available for the effort. Proposals not considered having sufficient scientific merit or relevance 
to the Army's needs, or those in areas for which funds are not expected to be available, may not 
receive further review. 
b. All proposals are treated as procurement sensitive and are disclosed only for the purpose 
of evaluation. Proposals not declined as a result of an initial review will be subject to a peer 
review by highly qualified scientists. While the applicant may restrict the evaluation to scientists 
from within the Government, to do so may prevent review of the proposal by those most 
qualified in the field of research covered by the proposal. The applicant must indicate on the 
96
appropriate proposal form (Form 52 or 52A) any limitation to be placed on disclosure of 
information contained in the proposal. 
c. Each proposal will be evaluated based on all the evaluation criteria in Section II.E.1 of 
this BAA rather than against other proposals for research in the same general area. 
d. Upon completion of an evaluation against the criteria in Section II.E.1, a proposal 
selected for possible award will be analyzed for the realism and reasonableness of costs. 
Proposal costs must be determined reasonable and realistic before the Government can make an 
award. 
3. Recipient Qualification
a. Grant, Cooperative Agreement, and TIA Proposals: 
i. The Grants Officer is responsible for determining a recipient’s qualification prior to 
award. In general, a Grants Officer will award grants or cooperative agreements only to 
qualified recipients that meet the standards at 32 CFR 22.415. To be qualified, a potential 
recipient must: 
(1) Have the management capability and adequate financial and technical resources, given 
those that would be made available through the grant or cooperative agreement, to 
execute the program of activities envisioned under the grant or cooperative agreement; 
(2) Have a satisfactory record of executing such programs or activities (if a prior recipient 
of an award); 
(3) Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics; and 
(4) Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement under 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Applicants are requested to provide information with proposal submissions to assist the Grants 
Officer’s evaluation of recipient qualification. 
ii. In accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in parts 180 
and 200 of Title 2, CFR, it is DoD policy that DoD Components must report and use integrity 
and performance information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information 
System (FAPIIS), or any successor system designated by OMB, concerning grants, cooperative 
agreements, and TIAs as follows: 
If the total Federal share will be greater than the simplified acquisition threshold on any Federal 
award under a notice of funding opportunity (see 2 CFR 200.88 Simplified Acquisition 
Threshold): 
97
(1) The Federal awarding agency, prior to making a Federal award with a total amount of 
Federal share greater than the simplified acquisition threshold, will review and 
consider any information about the applicant that is in the designated integrity and 
performance system accessible through SAM (currently FAPIIS) (see 41 U.S.C. 
2313); 
(2) An applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and 
performance systems accessible through SAM and comment on any information about 
itself that a Federal awarding agency previously entered and is currently in the 
designated integrity and performance system accessible through SAM; 
(3) The Federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in 
addition to the other information in the designated integrity and performance system, 
in making a judgment about the applicant's integrity, business ethics, and record of 
performance under Federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by 
applicants as described in 2 CFR 200.205 Federal awarding agency review of risk 
posed by applicants. 
b. Contract Proposals: 
i. Contracts shall be awarded to responsible prospective contractors only. See FAR 
9.104-1 for a listing of the general standards against which an applicant will be assessed to 
determine responsibility. 
Applicants are requested to provide information with proposal submission to assist the 
Contracting Officer’s evaluation of responsibility. 
ii. FAPIIS will be checked prior to making an award. The web address is: 
https://www.fapiis.gov/fapiis/index.action. The applicant representing the entity may 
comment in this system on any information about the entity that a federal government official 
entered. The information in FAPIIS will be used in making a judgment about the entity’s 
integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under Federal awards that may affect the 
official’s determination that the applicant is qualified to receive an award. 
(End of Section) 
F. Award Administration Information
1. Award Notices
Applicants whose proposals are recommended for award may be contacted by a Contract/Grant 
Specialist to discuss additional information required for award. This may include representations 
98
and certifications, revised budgets or budget explanations, certificate of current cost or pricing 
data, subcontracting plan for small businesses, and/or other information as applicable to the 
proposed award. The anticipated start date will be determined at that time. 
The notification email must not be regarded as an authorization to commit or expend funds. The 
Government is not obligated to provide any funding until a Government Contracting/ Grants 
Officer signs the award document. 
The award document signed by the Government Contracting/Grants Officer is the official and 
authorizing award instrument. The authorizing award instrument, signed by the Contracting/ 
Grants Officer, will be emailed to the PI and AOR. 
2. Administrative and National Policy Requirements
a. Required Representations and Certifications: 
i. Contract Proposals:
(1) Representations and certifications shall be completed by successful applicants prior to award. 
FAR Online Representations and Certifications are to be completed through SAM at 
https://www.SAM.gov. As appropriate, DFARS and contract-specific certification packages 
will be provided to the contractor for completion prior to award. 
(2) FAR 52.203-18, PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT REQUIRE 
CERTAIN CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS OR STATEMENTS—REPRESENTATION 
(JAN 2017) 
(a) Definition. As used in this provision--
“Internal confidentiality agreement or statement”, “subcontract”, and “subcontractor”, are 
defined in the clause at 52.203-19, Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality 
Agreements or Statements. 
(b) In accordance with section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in 
subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions), Government 
agencies are not permitted to use funds appropriated (or otherwise made available) for 
contracts with an entity that requires employees or subcontractors of such entity seeking to 
report waste, fraud, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements 
prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully 
reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement 
representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information. 
(c) The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this provision does not contravene requirements 
applicable to SF 312, (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414 
99
(Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form 
issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified 
information. 
(d) Representation. By submission of its offer, the applicant represents that it will not require 
its employees or subcontractors to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements 
or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from 
lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a Government 
contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal 
department or agency authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of the 
Inspector General). 
(3) FAR 52.209-11, REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING 
DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER FEDERAL LAW 
(FEB 2016) 
As required by sections 744 and 745 of Division E of the Consolidated and Further 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L 113-235), and similar provisions, if 
contained in subsequent appropriations acts, the Government will not enter into a contract 
with any corporation that--
Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial 
and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not 
being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority 
responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of 
the unpaid tax liability, unless an agency has considered suspension or debarment of 
the corporation and made a determination that suspension or debarment is not 
necessary to protect the interests of the Government; or 
Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the 
preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, 
unless an agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and 
made a determination that this action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government. 
The applicant represents that—
It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been 
exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to 
an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability; and 
It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation 
under a Federal law within the preceding 24 months.
100
ii. Grant and Cooperative Agreement Proposals: 
(1) Grant awards greater than $100,000 require a certification of compliance with a national 
policy mandate concerning lobbying. Statutes and Government-wide regulations require the 
certification to be submitted prior to award. When submitting your grant through Grants.gov, by 
completing blocks 18 and 19 of the SF 424 (R&R) Form, the grant applicant is providing the 
certification on lobbying required by 32 CFR Part 28; otherwise a copy signed by the AOR must 
be provided. Below is the required certification: 
CERTIFICATION AT APPENDIX A TO 32 CFR PART 28 REGARDING 
LOBBYING: Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements the 
undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: 
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of 
the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or 
employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, 
or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any 
Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the 
entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, 
amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative 
agreement. 
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid 
to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any 
agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee 
of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or 
cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit SF-LLL, 
"Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in accordance with its instructions. 
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in 
the award documents for all sub-awards at all tiers (including subcontracts, sub-grants, 
and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. 
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when 
this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite 
for making or entering into this transaction imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Any person who 
fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than 
$10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure. 
(2) In accordance with Continuing Appropriations Act, 2017 (Pub. L. 114-223), or any other 
Act that extends to fiscal year (FY) 2017 funds the same prohibitions as contained in section 743, 
division E, title VII, of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Pub. L. 114-113), none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by that or any other Act may be made available 
for a grant or cooperative agreement with an entity that requires its employees or contractors 
101
seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements 
prohibiting or otherwise restricting those employees or contractors from lawfully reporting that 
waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a 
Federal department or agency authorized to receive the information.
PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT REQUIRED CERTAIN 
INTERNAL CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS – REPRESENTATION 
Agreement with the representation below will be affirmed by checking the “I agree” 
box in block 17 of the SF424 (R&R) as part of the electronic proposal submitted via 
Grants.gov. The representation reads as follows: 
By submission of its proposal or application, the applicant represents that it does not 
require any of its employees, contractors, or sub-recipients seeking to report fraud, 
waste, or abuse to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting those employees, contractors, subrecipients from lawfully reporting that waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated 
investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information. 
*Note that: Section 743 states that it does not contravene requirements applicable to SF 
312, Form 4414, or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing 
the nondisclosure of classified information. 
(3) Recipients are required to submit the following representation with the application package 
IAW the instructions at Section II.D.2.f.ii of this BAA: 
REPRESENTATIONS UNDER DOD ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS: 
APPROPRIATIONS PROVISIONS ON TAX DELINQUENCY AND FELONY 
CONVICTIONS 
The applicant is ( ) is not ( ) a “Corporation” meaning any entity, including any 
institution of higher education, other nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity that has 
filed articles of incorporation. 
If the applicant is a “Corporation” please complete the following representations: 
(a) The applicant represents that it is ( ) is not ( ) a corporation that has any unpaid 
Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative 
remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax 
liability. 
102
(b) The applicant represents that it is ( ) is not ( ) is not a corporation that was 
convicted of a criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 
months. 
NOTE: If an applicant responds in the affirmative to either of the above representations, 
the applicant is ineligible to receive an award unless the agency suspension and 
debarment official (SDO) has considered suspension or debarment and determined that 
further action is not required to protect the Government’s interests. The applicant 
therefore should provide information about its tax liability or conviction to the agency’s 
SDO as soon as it can do so, to facilitate completion of the required considerations 
before award decisions are made. 
b. Policy Requirements: 
The following list provides notable national policy requirements that may be applicable to an 
award. NOTE: The following is not an all-inclusive list of policy requirements. For assistance 
awards, refer to the DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions at 
http://www.onr.navy.mil/Contracts-Grants/submit-proposal/grants-proposal/grantstermsconditions.aspx for additional national policy requirements that may apply. For contract 
awards, appropriate clauses will be added to award documents. 
i. PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: 
(a) The recipient must protect the rights and welfare of individuals who participate as human 
subjects in research under this award and comply with the requirements at 32 CFR part 219, 
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3216.02, 10 U.S.C. 980, and when applicable, Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations. 
 
(b) The recipient must not begin performance of research involving human subjects, also 
known as human subjects research (HSR), that is covered under 32 CFR part 219, or that meets 
exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), until you receive a formal notification of approval 
from a DoD Human Research Protection Official (HRPO). Approval to perform HSR under this 
award is received after the HRPO has performed a review of the recipient’s documentation of 
planned HSR activities and has officially furnished a concurrence with the recipient’s 
determination as presented in the documentation. 
(c) In order for the HRPO to accomplish this concurrence review, the recipient must provide 
sufficient documentation to enable his or her assessment as follows: 
(i) If the HSR meets an exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), the documentation 
must include a citation of the exemption category under 32 CFR 219.101(b) and a rationale 
statement. 
103
(ii) If the recipient’s activity is determined as “non-exempt research involving human 
subjects”, the documentation must include: 
- Assurance of Compliance (i.e., Department of Health and Human Services Office for 
Human Research Protections (OHRP) Federal Wide Assurance (FWA)) appropriate for the 
scope of work or program plan; and 
- Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, as well as all documentation reviewed by the 
IRB to make their determination. 
(d) The HRPO retains final judgment on what activities constitute HSR, whether an exempt 
category applies, whether the risk determination is appropriate, and whether the planned HSR 
activities comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. 
(e) The recipient must notify the HRPO immediately of any suspensions or terminations of the 
Assurance of Compliance. 
(f) DoD staff, consultants, and advisory groups may independently review and inspect the 
recipient’s research and research procedures involving human subjects and, based on such 
findings, DoD may prohibit research that presents unacceptable hazards or otherwise fails to 
comply with DoD requirements. 
(g) Definitions for terms used in this article are found in DoDI 3216.02. 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clauses shall be added to the award. 
ii. ANIMAL USE: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: 
(a) Prior to initiating any animal work under the award, the recipient must: 
 
(i) Register the recipient’s research, development, test, and evaluation or training facility with 
the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR section 2.30, 
unless otherwise exempt from this requirement by meeting the conditions in 7 U.S.C. 2136 
and 9 CFR parts 1-4 for the duration of the activity. 
(ii) Have the recipient’s proposed animal use approved in accordance with DoDI 3216.01, Use 
of Animals in DoD Programs by a DoD Component Headquarters Oversight Office. 
(iii) Furnish evidence of such registration and approval to the grants officer. 
(b) The recipient must make the animals on which the research is being conducted, and all 
premises, facilities, vehicles, equipment, and records that support animal care and use 
104
available during business hours and at other times mutually agreeable to the recipient, the 
United States 
Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 
(USDA/APHIS) representative, personnel representing the DoD component oversight offices, as 
well as the grants officer, to ascertain that the recipient is compliant with 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 
CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01. 
(c) The recipient’s care and use of animals must conform with the pertinent laws of the United 
States, regulations of the Department of Agriculture, and regulations, policies, and procedures 
of the DoD (see 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01). 
(d) The recipient must acquire animals in accordance with DoDI 3216.01. 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clauses shall be added to the award. 
iii. BIOLOGICAL SAFETY PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS: 
(1) Assistance Instruments and Contracts: Awards may be subject to biological safety program 
requirements IAW: 
(a) Army Regulation (AR) 385-10, Chapter 20 
http://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/r385_10.pdf
(b) Department of Army (DA) PAM 385-69 
http://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/p385_69.pdf
(c) DoD Manual 6055.18-M, Enclosure 4, Section 13 
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/605518m.pdf
(d) DoD Executive Agent List (see item 3) 
http://www.oaa.army.mil/aea_functions.aspx
iv. MILITARY RECRUITING: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: This is to notify potential applicants that each grant or cooperative 
agreement awarded under this announcement to an institution of higher education must include 
the following term and condition: 
(a) As a condition for receiving funds available to the DoD under this award, you agree that you 
are not an institution of higher education (as defined in 32 CFR part 216) that has a policy or 
practice that either prohibits, or in effect prevents: 
105
(i) The Secretary of a Military Department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a 
unit of the Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC)—-in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 654 
and other applicable Federal laws—-at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution); 
(ii) Any student at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution) from enrolling in a 
unit of the Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education. 
(iii) The Secretary of a Military Department or Secretary of Homeland Security from gaining 
access to campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on campuses, for 
purposes of military recruiting in a manner that is at least equal in quality and scope to the access 
to campuses and to students that is provided to any other employer; or 
(iv) Access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to the names of students 
(who are 17 years of age or older and enrolled at that institution or any sub-element of that 
institution); their addresses, telephone listings, dates and places of birth, levels of education, 
academic majors, and degrees received; and the most recent educational institutions in which 
they were enrolled. 
(b) If you are determined, using the procedures in 32 CFR part 216, to be such an institution of 
higher education during the period of performance of this award, we: 
(i) Will cease all payments to you of DoD funds under this award and all other DoD grants 
and cooperative agreements; and 
(ii) May suspend or terminate those awards unilaterally for material failure to comply with 
the award terms and conditions. 
(2) Contracts: Each contract awarded under this announcement to an institution of higher 
education shall include the following clause: DFARS 252.209-7005, Military Recruiting on 
Campus. 
v. SUBCONTRACTING: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: N/A 
(2) Contracts: Pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. § 637(d)), it is the 
policy of the Government to enable small business and small disadvantaged business (SDB) 
concerns to be considered fairly as subcontractors. All other than U.S. small businesses 
proposing contracts expected to exceed $700,000 and that have subcontracting possibilities 
are required to submit a subcontracting plan IAW FAR 19.702(a), and shall do so with their 
proposal. 
Subcontracting plans are determined to be acceptable or unacceptable based on the criteria 
established at FAR 19.705-4, DFARS 219.705-4, and AFARS 5119.705-4. Goals are established 
on an individual contract basis and should result in realistic, challenging and attainable goals that, 
106
to the greatest extent possible, maximize small business participation in subcontracting for Small 
Business, SDB, Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB), Economically-Disadvantaged 
Woman-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB), Service-Disabled 
Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB), Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB), and 
Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Small Business consistent with applicants’ 
make-or-buy policy, the pool of and availability of qualified and capable small business 
subcontractors, their performance on subcontracts, and existing relationships with suppliers. 
Subcontracting goals should result in efficient contract performance in terms of cost, schedule, 
and performance and should not result in increased costs to the government or undue 
administrative burden to the prime contractor. For reference, DoD Small Business 
Subcontracting Goals may be found at: 
http://www.acq.osd.mil/osbp/statistics/sbProgramGoals.shtml. 
vi. EXPORT CONTROL LAWS: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: N/A 
(2) Contracts: Applicants should be aware of current export control laws and are responsible for 
ensuring compliance with all International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR) (22 CFR 120 
et. Seq.) requirements, as applicable. In some cases, developmental items funded by the DoD 
are now included on the United States Munition List (USML) and are therefore subject to 
ITAR jurisdiction. Applicants should address in their proposals whether ITAR restrictions 
apply or do not apply, such as in the case when research products would have both civil and 
military application, to the work they are proposing to perform for the DoD. The USML is 
available online at http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt22.1.121. Additional 
information regarding the President's Export Control Reform Initiative can be found at 
http://export.gov/ecr/index.asp. 
vii. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in 
Subpart B of 2 CFR part 26, which is the DoD implementation of 41 U.S.C. chapter 81, 
“Drug Free Workplace.” 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award. 
viii. DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must comply with requirements regarding debarment 
and suspension in Subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125. This 
includes requirements concerning the recipient’s principals under an award, as well as 
requirements concerning the recipient’s procurement transactions and sub-awards that are 
implemented in DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions PROC 
Articles I through III and SUB Article II. 
107
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award. 
ix. REPORTING SUBAWARDS AND EXECUTIVE 
COMPENSATION: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must report information about sub-awards and 
executive compensation as specified in the award term in Appendix A to 2 CFR part 170, 
“Reporting sub-award and executive compensation information,” modified as follows: 
(a) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for 
reporting sub-award information, the Web site “http://www.fsrs.gov” cited in paragraphs a.2.i. 
and a.3 of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “http://www.fsrs.gov or successor OMB
designated Web site for reporting sub-award information”; 
(b) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for 
reporting executive compensation information, the Web site “http://www.sam.gov” cited in 
paragraph b.2.i. of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “https://www.sam.gov or 
successor OMB-designated Web site for reporting information on total compensation”; and (c) 
The reference to “Sec. ___.210 of the attachment to OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, 
Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations” in paragraph e.3.ii of the award term is 
replaced by “2 CFR 200.330, as implemented in DoD Research and Development General Terms 
and Conditions SUB Article I of this award.” 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award. 
3. Reporting
a. Additional reports including number and types will be specified in the award document, 
but will include as a minimum monthly financial status reports. The reports shall be prepared 
and submitted in accordance with the procedures contained in the award document and mutually 
agreed upon before award. Reports and briefing material will also be required as appropriate to 
document progress in accomplishing program metrics. A final report that summarizes the 
project and tasks will be required at the conclusion of the performance period for the award. 
b. ARMY MANPOWER CONTRACTOR REPORTING: For Contracts Only. The Office 
of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) operates and maintains a 
secure Army data collection site where the contractor will report ALL contractor manpower 
(including subcontractor6 manpower) required for performance of this contract. The contractor 
is required to completely fill in all the information in the format using the following web 
address: https://cmra.army.mil/. The required information includes: 
(1) Contracting Office, Contracting Officer, Contracting Officer’s Technical 
Representative; 
(2) Contract number, including task and delivery order number; 
(3) Beginning and ending dates covered by reporting period; 
108
(4) Contractor name, address, phone number, email address, identity of contractor employee 
entering data; 
(5) Estimated direct labor hours (including sub-contractors); 
(6) Estimated direct labor dollars paid this reporting period (including sub-contractors); 
(7) Total payments (including sub-contractors); 
(8) Predominate Federal Service Code (FSC) reflecting services provided by contractor (and 
separate predominant FSC for each sub-contractor if different); 
(9) Estimated data collection cost; 
(10) Organizational title associated with the Unit Identification Code (UIC) for the Army 
Requiring Activity (the Army Requiring Activity is responsible for providing the contractor 
with its UIC for the purposes of reporting this information); 
(11) Locations where contractor and sub-contractors perform the work (specified by zip code in 
the United States and nearest city, country, when in an overseas location, using standardized 
nomenclature provided on website); 
(12) Presence of deployment or contingency contract language; and 
(13) Number of contractor and sub-contractor employees deployed in theater this reporting 
period (by country). 
As part of its submission, the contractor will also provide the estimated total cost (if any) 
incurred to comply with this reporting requirement. Reporting period will be the period of 
performance not to exceed 12 months ending 30 September of each government FY and must be 
reported by 31 October of each calendar year. Contractors may use a direct XML data transfer to 
the database server or fill in the fields on the website. The XML direct transfer is a format for 
transferring files from a contractor’s systems to the secure web site without the need for separate 
data entries for each required data element at the web site. The specific formats for the XML 
direct transfer may be downloaded from the web site. 
c. If the total Federal share exceeds $500,000 on any Federal award under a notice of funding 
opportunity, the post-award reporting requirements reflected in Appendix XII to 2 CFR 200 will 
be included in the award document. This requirement also applies to modifications of awards 
that: 1) increase the scope of the award, 2) are issued on or after January 1, 2016, and 3) increase 
the federal share of the award’s total value to an amount that exceeds $500,000. 
(End of Section) 
G. Agency Contacts 
1. Questions of a technical or programmatic nature shall be directed to the TPOC for each 
research area of interest. The TPOC information may be found in the description of each 
research area of interest in Section II.A of this BAA. 
2. Questions of a business or administrative nature are to be directed to the following email: 
109
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil
3. Comments or questions submitted should be concise and to the point, eliminating any 
unnecessary verbiage. In addition, the relevant part and paragraph of the announcement 
should be referenced. 
4. Requests to withdraw a proposal shall be directed to usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. 
(End of Section) 
H. Other Information 
Below are two separate outlines of the informational requirements for a sample cost proposal. 
Section H.1 is for a procurement contract and Section H.2 is for grants and cooperative 
agreements. 
1. CONTRACT Proposals 
Cost Proposal – {No Page Limit}
Cover sheet to include: 
1 BAA number 
2 Technical area 
3 Lead organization submitting proposal 
4 Type of business, selected among the following categories: “LARGE BUSINESS”, 
“SDB”, “OTHER SMALL BUSINESS”, “HBCU”, “MI”, “OTHER EDUCATIONAL”, 
OR “OTHER NONPROFIT” 
5 Contractor’s reference number (if any) 
6 Other team members (if applicable) and type of business for each 
7 Proposal title 
8 TPOC to include: salutation, last name, first name, street address, city, state, zip code, 
telephone, fax (if available), electronic mail (if available) 
9 Administrative point of contact to include: salutation, last name, first name, street address, 
city, state, zip code, telephone, fax (if available), and electronic mail (if available) 
10 Award instrument requested: cost plus fixed fee (CPFF), cost-contract—no fee, cost 
sharing contract – no fee, or other type of procurement contract (specify) 
11 Place(s) and period(s) of performance 
12 Total proposed cost separated by basic award and option(s) (if any) 
13 Name, address, and telephone number of the proposer’s cognizant Defense Contract 
Management Agency (DCMA) administration office (if known) 
110
14 Name, address, and telephone number of the proposer’s cognizant Defense Contract Audit 
Agency (DCAA) audit office (if known) 
15 Date proposal was prepared 
16 DUNS number 
17 TIN number 
18 CAGE code 
19 Subcontractor information 
20 Proposal validity period 
21 Any Forward Pricing Rate Agreement, other such approved rate information, or such other 
documentation that may assist in expediting negotiations (if available) 
a. Reasoning for Submitting a Strong Cost Proposal
The ultimate responsibility of the Contracting Officer is to ensure that all prices offered in a 
proposal are fair and reasonable before contract award. To establish the reasonableness of the 
offered prices, the Contracting Officer may ask the applicant to provide supporting 
documentation that assists in this determination. The applicant’s ability to be responsive to the 
Contracting Officer’s requests can expedite contract award. As specified in Section 808 of 
Public Law 105-261, an applicant who does not comply with a requirement to submit 
information for a contract or subcontract in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of FAR 15.403-3 
may be ineligible for award. 
b. DCAA-Accepted Accounting System
i. Before a cost-type contract can be awarded, the Contracting Officer must confirm that the 
applicant has a DCAA-accepted accounting system in place for accumulating and billing costs 
under Government contracts [FAR 53.209-1(f)]. If the applicant has DCAA correspondence, 
which documents the acceptance of its accounting system, this should be provided to the 
Contracting Officer (i.e. attached or referenced in the proposal). Otherwise, the Contracting 
Officer will submit an inquiry directly to the appropriate DCAA office and request a review of 
the applicant’s accounting system. 
ii. If an applicant does not have a DCAA-accepted accounting system in place, the DCAA 
review process can take several months depending upon the availability of the DCAA auditors 
and the applicant’s internal processes. This will delay contract award. 
iii. For more information about cost proposals and accounting standards, view the link titled 
“Information for Contractors” on the main menu of the DCAA website. 
c. Field Pricing Assistance
During the pre-award cost audit process, the Contracting Officer may solicit support from DCAA 
to determine commerciality and price reasonableness of the proposal [FAR 15.404-2]. Any 
111
proprietary information or reports obtained from DCAA field audits will be appropriately 
identified and protected within the Government. 
d. Sample Cost Proposal – “Piece by Piece”
To help guide applicant s through the pre-award cost audit process, a sample cost proposal is 
detailed below. This sample allows the applicant to see exactly what the Government is looking 
for so that all cost and pricing back-up data can be provided to the Government in the first cost 
proposal submission. Review each cost element within the proposal, and take note of the types 
of documentation that the Contracting Officer will require from the applicant. 
i. Direct Labor: The first cost element included in the cost proposal is Direct Labor. Each 
proposed employee must be listed by name and labor category. 
Below is the Direct Labor as proposed by our sample applicant: 
DIRECT LABOR YEAR 1 YEAR 2 
Employee 
Name 
Labor 
Category 
Direct 
Hourly 
Rate 
Hours Total Direct 
Labor 
Direct 
Hourly 
Rate 
Hours Total Direct 
Labor 
Andy 
Smith 
Program 
Manager 
$55.00 720.00 $39,600.00 $56.65 720.00 $40,788.00 
Bryan 
Andrews 
Senior 
Engineer 
$40.00 672.00 $26,880.00 $41.20 672.00 $27,686.40 
Cindy 
Thomas 
Principal 
Engineer 
$50.00 512.00 $25,600.00 $51.50 512.00 $26,368.00 
David 
Porter 
Entry Level 
Engineer 
$10.00 400.00 $4,000.00 $10.30 400.00 $4,120.00 
Edward 
Bean 
Project 
Administrator 
$25.00 48.00 $1,200.00 $25.75 48.00 $1,236.00 
Subtotal 
Direct 
Labor (DL) 
$97,280.00 $100,198.40
(1) For this cost element, the Contracting Officer requires the applicant to provide adequate 
documentation in order to determine that the labor rate for each employee/labor category is fair 
and reasonable. The documentation must explain how these labor rates were derived. For 
example, if the rates are DCAA-approved labor rates, provide the Contracting Officer with 
copies of the DCAA documents stating the approval. This is the most acceptable means of 
documentation to determine the rates fair and reasonable. Other types of supporting 
documentation may include General Service Administration (GSA) contract price lists, actual 
payroll journals, or Salary.com research. If an employee listed in a cost proposal is not a current 
employee (maybe a new employee, or one contingent upon the award of this contract), a copy of 
112
the offer letter stating the hourly rate, signed and accepted by the employee, may be provided as 
adequate documentation. 
Sometimes the hourly rates listed in a proposal are derived through subjective processes, i.e., 
blending of multiple employees in one labor category, or averaged over the course of the year to 
include scheduled payroll increases, etc. These situations should be clearly documented for the 
Contracting Officer. 
(2) Another cost element in Direct Labor is labor escalation, or the increase in labor rates 
from year to year. In the example above, the proposed labor escalation is 3% (ex., Andy Smith’s 
direct labor rate increased by 3% from $55.00/hour in Year 1 to $56.65/hour in Year 2). Often 
times, an applicant may not propose escalation on labor rates during a 24-month period. 
Whatever the proposed escalation rate is, please be prepared to explain why it is fair and 
reasonable. For example, a sufficient explanation for our sample escalation rate would be “The 
Government’s General Schedule Increase and Locality Pay for the same time period (name FY) 
in the same location (name location) was published as 3.5%; therefore a 3% increase is fair and 
reasonable”. ii. Other Direct Costs (ODCs): This section of the cost proposal includes all other 
directly related costs required in support of the effort (i.e., materials, subcontractors, consultants, 
travel, etc.). Any cost element that includes various items must be detailed in a cost breakdown. 
(1) Direct Material Costs: This subsection of the cost proposal will include any special tooling, 
test equipment, and material costs necessary to perform the project. Items included in this 
section must be carefully reviewed relative to need and appropriateness for the work proposed, 
and must, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, be advantageous to the Government and 
directly related to the specific topic. 
The Contracting Officer will require adequate documentation from the applicant to determine the 
cost reasonableness for each material cost proposed. The following methods are ways in which 
the Contracting Officer can determine this [FAR 15.403-1]: 
(a) Adequate Price Competition. A price is based on adequate price competition 
when the applicant solicits and receives quotes from two or more responsible vendors for 
the same or similar items or services. Based on these quotes, the applicant selects the 
vendor who represents the best value to the Government. The applicant will be required 
to provide to the Contracting Officer copies of all vendor quotes received. 
*NOTE: Price competition is not required for items at or below the micro-purchase 
threshold ($3,000) [FAR 15.403-1]. If an item’s unit cost is less than or equal to 
$3,000, price competition is not necessary. However, if an item’s total cost over the 
period of performance (unit cost x quantity) is higher than $3,000, two or more quotes must 
be obtained by the applicant. 
(b) Commercial Prices. Commercial prices are those published on current price lists, 
catalogs, or market prices. This includes vendors who have prices published on a GSA
113
schedule contract. The applicant will be required to provide copies of such price lists to 
the Contracting Officer. 
(c) Prices set by law or regulation. If a price is mandated by the Government (i.e. 
pronouncements in the form of periodic rulings, reviews, or similar actions of a 
governmental body, or embodied in the laws) that is sufficient to set a price. 
Below is the list of Direct Material costs included in our sample proposal: 
DIRECT MATERIAL COSTS YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Raw Materials $35,000.00 $12,000.00
Computer for experiments $4,215.00 $0.00
Cable (item #12-3657, 300 ft.) $1,275.00 $0.00
Software $1,825.00 $1,825.00
Subtotal Direct Materials Costs $42,315.00 $13,825.00 
“Raw Materials”: This is a generic label used to group many material items into one cost item 
within the proposal. The Contracting Officer will require a detailed breakout of all the items that 
make up this cost. For each separate item over $3,000 (total for Year 1 + Year 2), the applicant 
must be able to provide either competitive quotes received, or show that published pricing was 
used. 
“Computer for experiments”: This item is most likely a grouping of several components that 
make up one system. The Contracting Officer will require a detailed breakout of all the items 
that make up this cost. For each separate item over $3,000 (total for Year 1 + Year 2), the 
applicant must be able to provide either competitive quotes received, or show that published 
pricing was used. 
“Cable”: Since this item is under the simplified acquisition threshold of $3,000, competitive 
quotes or published pricing are not required. Simply provide documentation to show the 
Contracting Officer where this price came from. 
“Software”: This cost item could include either one software product, or multiple products. If 
this includes a price for multiple items, please provide the detailed cost breakdown. Note: The 
price for Year 1 ($1,825) is below the simplified acquisition threshold; however, in total (Year 1 
+ Year 2) the price is over $3,000, so competitive quotes or published pricing documentation 
must be provided. 
Due to the specialized types of products and services necessary to perform these projects, it may 
not always be possible to obtain competitive quotes from more than one reliable source. Each 
cost element over the simplified acquisition threshold ($3,000) must be substantiated. There is 
always an explanation for how the cost of an item was derived; document how you came up with 
that price. 
114
When it is not possible for an applicant to obtain a vendor price through competitive quotes or 
published price lists, the Contracting Officer may accept other methods to determine cost 
reasonableness. Below are some examples of other documentation, which the Contracting 
Officer may accept to substantiate costs: 
(a) Evidence that a vendor/supplier charged another applicant a similar price for 
similar services. Has the vendor charged someone else for the same product? Two (2) to 
three (3) invoices from that vendor to different customers may be used as evidence. 
(b) Previous contract prices. Has the applicant charged the Government a similar 
price under another Government contract for similar services? If the Government has 
already paid a certain price for services, then that price may already be considered fair 
and reasonable. Provide the contract number, and billing rates for reference. 
(c) DCAA approved. Has DCAA already accepted or verified specific cost items 
included in your proposal? Provide a copy of DCAA correspondence that addressed these 
costs. 
(2) ODCs: Below is the remaining ODC portion of our proposal including equipment, 
subcontractors, consultants, and travel. Assume in this scenario that competitive quotes or 
catalog prices were not available for these items: 
ODCs YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Equipment Rental for Analysis $5,500.00 $5,600.00
Subcontractor – Widget, Inc. $25,000.00 $0.00
Consultant: John Bowers $0.00 $12,000.00
Travel $1,250.00 $1,250.00 
Subtotal: ODCs $31,750.00 $18,850.00 
“Equipment Rental for Analysis”: The applicant explains that the Year 1 cost of 
$5,500 is based upon 250 hours of equipment rental at an hourly rate of $22.00/hr. One (1) 
invoice from the vendor charging another vendor the same price for the same service is provided 
to the Contracting Officer as evidence. Since this cost is over the simplified acquisition 
threshold, further documentation to determine cost reasonableness is required. The applicant is 
able to furnish another invoice charging a second vendor the same price for the same service. 
“Subcontractor – Widget, Inc.”: The applicant provides a copy of the subcontractor quote to the 
Contracting Officer in support of the $25,000 cost. This subcontractor quote must include 
sufficient detailed information (equivalent to the data included in the prime’s proposal to the 
Government), so that the Contracting Officer can make a determination of cost reasonableness. 
115
(a) As stated in Section 3.5(c)(6) of the DoD Cost Proposal guidance, “All 
subcontractor costs and consultant costs must be detailed at the same level as prime 
contractor costs in regards to labor, travel, equipment, etc. Provide detailed substantiation 
of subcontractor costs in your cost proposal.” 
(b) In accordance with FAR 15.404-3, “the Contracting Officer is responsible for the 
determination of price reasonableness for the prime contract, including subcontracting 
costs”. This means that the subcontractor’s quote/proposal may be subject to the same 
scrutiny by the Contracting Officer as the cost proposal submitted by the prime. The 
Contracting Officer will need to determine whether the subcontractor has an accepted 
purchasing system in place and/or conduct appropriate cost or price analyses to establish 
the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices. Due to the proprietary nature of cost 
data, the subcontractor may choose to submit their pricing information directly to the 
Contracting Officer and not through the prime. This is understood and encouraged. 
(c) When a subcontractor is selected to provide support under the prime contract due 
to its specialized experience, the Contracting Officer may request sole source justification 
from the applicant. 
“Consultant – John Bowers”: The applicant shall provide a copy of the consultant’s quote to the 
Contracting Officer as evidence. In this example, the consultant will be charging an hourly rate 
of $125 an hour for 96 hours of support. The applicant indicates to the Contracting Officer that 
this particular consultant was used on a previous contract with the Government (provide contract 
number), and will be charging the same rate. A copy of the consultant’s invoice to the applicant 
under the prior contract is available as supporting evidence. Since the Government has paid this 
price for the same services in the past, determination has already been made that the price is fair. 
“Travel”: The Contracting Officer will require a detailed cost breakdown for travel expenses to 
determine whether the total cost is reasonable based on Government per diem and mileage rates. 
This breakdown shall include the number of trips, the destinations, and the number of travelers. 
It will also need to include the estimated airfare per round trip, estimated car rental, lodging rate 
per trip, tax on lodging, and per diem rate per trip. The lodging and per diem rates must comply 
with the Joint Travel Regulations. Please see the following website to determine the appropriate 
lodging and per diem rates: http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil. Additionally, the applicant must 
provide why the airfare is fair and reasonable as well. Sufficient back up for both airfare and car 
rental would include print outs of online research at the various travel search engines (Expedia, 
Travelocity, etc.), documenting the prices for airfare and car rentals are fair and reasonable. 
Below is a sample of the travel portion: 
TRAVEL Unit Trips Travelers Nights Days Unit Cost Total Travel 
Airfare roundtrip 1 1 $996.00 $996.00 
Lodging day 1 1 1 $75.00 $75.00
116
Tax on 
Lodging 
(12%) 
day 1 1 1 $9.00 $9.00 
Per Diem day 1 1 2 $44.00 $88.00
Automobile 
Rental 
day 1 1 2 $41.00 $82.00 
Subtotal 
Travel 
$1,250.00 
Indirect Costs: Indirect costs include elements such as fringe benefits, general and administrative 
(G&A), overhead, and material handling costs. The applicant shall indicate in the cost proposal 
both the indirect rates (as a percentage) as well as how those rates are allocated to the costs in the 
proposal. 
Below is the indirect portion of our sample proposal: 
INDIRECTS YEAR 1 YEAR 2 
Subtotal Direct Labor (DL): $97,280.00 $100,198.40 
Fringe Benefits, if not included in Overhead, 
rate (15.0000 %) X DL = $14,592.00 $15,029.76 
Labor Overhead (rate 45.0000 %) X (DL + 
Fringe) = $50,342.40 $51,852.67 
Total Direct Labor (TDL): $162,214.40 $167,080.83 
In this example, the applicant includes a fringe benefit rate of 15.00% that it allocated to the 
direct labor costs. The applicant also proposes a labor overhead rate of 45.00% that is allocated 
to the direct labor costs plus the fringe benefits. 
All indirect rates and the allocation methods of those rates must be verified by the Contracting 
Officer. In most cases, DCAA documentation supporting the indirect rates and allocation 
methods can be obtained through a DCAA field audit or proposal review. Many applicants have 
already completed such reviews and have this documentation readily available. If an applicant is 
unable to participate in a DCAA review to substantiate indirect rates, the Contracting Officer 
may request other accounting data from the applicant to make a determination. 
iii. FCCM: Cost of money is an imputed cost that is not a form of interest on borrowings (see 
FAR 31.205-20). FCCM is an “incurred cost” for cost-reimbursement purposes under applicable 
cost-reimbursement contracts and for progress payment purposes under fixed-price contracts. It 
refers to (1) FCCM (48 CFR 9904.414) and (2) cost of money as an element of the cost of capital 
assets under construction (48 CFR 9904.417). If cost of money is proposed in accordance with 
117
FAR 31.205-10, a DD Form 1861 is required to be completed and submitted with the applicant’s 
proposal. 
iv. Fee/Profit: The proposed fee percentage will be analyzed in accordance with DFARS 
215.404, the Weighted Guidelines Method. 
v. Subcontracting Plan: If the total amount of the proposal exceeds $700,000 and the 
applicant is a large business or an institute of higher education (other than HBCU/MI) and the 
resultant award is a contract, the applicant shall be prepared to submit a subcontracting plan for
small business and SDB concerns. A mutually agreeable plan will be included in and made a 
part of the contract (see Section II.F.2.b.v). 
2. GRANT and COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT Proposals
Before award it must be established that an approved accounting system and financial 
management system exist. 
a. Direct Labor: Show the current and projected salary amounts in terms of man-hours, manmonths, or annual salary to be charged by the PI(s), faculty, research associates, postdoctoral 
associates, graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, clerical, and other technical 
personnel either by personnel or position. State the number of man-hours used to calculate a 
man-month or man-year. For proposals from universities, research during the academic term 
is deemed part of regular academic duties, not an extra function for which additional 
compensation or compensation at a higher rate is warranted. Consequently, academic term 
salaries shall not be augmented either in rate or in total amount for research performed during 
the academic term. Rates of compensation for research conducted during non-academic 
(summer) terms shall not exceed the rate for the academic terms. When part or all of a 
person's services are to be charged as project costs, it is expected that the person will be 
relieved of an equal part or all of his or her regular teaching or other obligations. For each 
person or position, provide the following information: 
i. The basis for the direct labor hours or percentage of effort (e.g., historical hours or 
estimates); 
ii. The basis for the direct labor rates or salaries. Labor costs should be predicted upon 
current labor rates or salaries. These rates may be adjusted upward for forecast salary or 
wage cost-of-living increases that will occur during the agreement period. The cost 
proposal should separately identify the rationale applied to base salary/wage for cost-of
living adjustments and merit increases. Each must be fully explained; 
iii. The portion of time to be devoted to the proposed research, divided between academic 
and non-academic (summer) terms, when applicable; 
iv. The total annual salary charged to the research project; and 
118
v. Any details that may affect the salary during the project, such as plans for leave and/or 
remuneration while on leave. 
Note: There is no page limitation for budget proposals or budget justifications. 
b. Fringe Benefits and Indirect Costs (Overhead, G&A, and Other): The most recent rates, dates 
of negotiation, the base(s) and periods to which the rates apply must be disclosed and a 
statement included identifying whether the proposed rates are provisional or fixed. If the rates 
have been negotiated by a Government agency, state when and by which agency. A copy of 
the negotiation memorandum should be provided. If negotiated forecast rates do not exist, 
applicants must provide sufficient detail to enable a determination to be made that the costs 
included in the forecast rate are allocable according to applicable cost provisions. Applicants' 
disclosure should be sufficient to permit a full understanding of the content of the rate(s) and 
how it was established. As a minimum, the submission should identify: 
i. All individual cost elements included in the forecast rate(s); 
ii. Basis used to prorate indirect expenses to cost pools, if any; 
iii. How the rate(s) was calculated; 
iv. Distribution basis of the developed rate(s); 
v. Basis on which the overhead rate is calculated, such as "salaries and wages" or "total 
costs;" and 
vi. The period of the applicant's FY. 
c. Permanent Equipment: If facilities or equipment are required, a justification why this property 
should be furnished by the Government must be submitted. State the organization's inability 
or unwillingness to furnish the facilities or equipment. Applicants must provide an itemized 
list of permanent equipment showing the cost for each item. Permanent equipment is any 
article or tangible nonexpendable property having a useful life of more than one year and an 
acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. The basis for the cost of each item of permanent 
equipment included in the budget must be disclosed, such as: 
i. Vendor Quote: Show name of vendor, number of quotes received and justification, if 
intended award is to other than lowest bidder. 
ii. Historical Cost: Identify vendor, date of purchase, and whether or not cost represents 
lowest bid. Include reason(s) for not soliciting current quotes. 
iii. Engineering Estimate: Include rationale for quote and reason for not soliciting current 
quotes. 
119
If applicable, the following additional information shall be disclosed in the applicant’s cost 
proposal: 
iv. Special test equipment to be fabricated by the awardee for specific research purposes 
and its cost. 
v. Standard equipment to be acquired and modified to meet specific requirements, 
including acquisition and modification costs, listed separately. 
vi. Existing equipment to be modified to meet specific research requirements, including 
modification costs. Do not include equipment the organization will purchase with its 
funds if the equipment will be capitalized for Federal income tax purposes. Proposed 
permanent equipment purchases during the final year of an award shall be limited and 
fully justified. 
vii.Grants and cooperative agreements may convey title to an institution for equipment 
purchased with project funds. At the discretion of the Contracting/Grants Officer, the 
agreement may provide for retention of the title by the Government or may impose 
conditions governing the equipment conveyed to the organization per the governing 
laws and regulations. 
d. Travel: Forecasts of travel expenditures (domestic and foreign) that identify the destination 
and the various cost elements (airfare, mileage, per diem rates, etc.) must be submitted. The 
costs should be in sufficient detail to determine the reasonableness of such costs. Allowance 
for air travel normally will not exceed the cost of round-trip, economy air accommodations. 
Specify the type of travel and its relationship to the research project. Requests for domestic 
travel must not exceed $3,000 per year per PI. Separate, prior approval by the ARL is 
required for all foreign travel (i.e., travel outside the continental U.S., its possessions and 
Canada). Foreign travel requests must not exceed $1,800 each per year per PI. Special 
justification will be required for travel requests in excess of the amounts stated above and for 
travel by individuals other than the PI(s). Individuals other than the PI(s) are considered 
postdoctoral associates, research associates, graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, 
clerical, and other technical personnel. 
Additional travel may be requested for travel to Army laboratories and facilities to enhance 
agreement objectives and to achieve technology transfer.
(1) Participant Support Costs: This budget category refers to costs of transportation, per 
diem, stipends, and other related costs for participants or trainees (but not employees) in 
connection with ARO-sponsored conferences, meetings, symposia, training activities,
apprenticeships and workshops (see the “Other Programs” section as described earlier in this 
BAA). Generally, indirect costs are not allowed on participant support costs. The number of 
participants to be supported should be entered in the parentheses on the budget form. These 
costs should also be justified in the budget justification page(s) attached to the cost proposal.
120
(2) Materials, Supplies, and Consumables: A general description and total estimated 
cost of expendable equipment and supplies are required. The basis for developing the cost 
estimate (vendor quotes, invoice prices, engineering estimate, purchase order history, etc.) 
must be included. If possible, provide a material list.
(3) Publication, Documentation, and Dissemination: The budget may request funds for the 
costs of preparing, publishing, or otherwise making available to others the findings and
products of the work conducted under an agreement, including costs of reports, reprints, page 
charges, or other journal costs (except costs for prior or early publication); necessary 
illustrations, cleanup, documentation, storage, and indexing of data and databases; and 
development, documentation, and debugging ofsoftware.
(4) Consultant Costs: Applicants normally are expected to utilize the services of their own 
staff to the maximum extent possible in managing and performing the project's effort. If the 
need for consultant services is anticipated, the nature of proposed consultant services should be 
justified and included in the technical proposal narrative. The cost proposal should include the 
names of consultant(s), primary organizational affiliation, each individual's expertise, daily 
compensation rate, number of days of expected service, and estimated travel and per diem
costs.
(5) Computer Services: The cost of computer services, including computer-based retrieval of 
scientific, technical, and educational information, may be requested. A justification/explanation 
based on the established computer service rates at the proposing organization should be 
included. The budget also may request costs, which must be shown to be reasonable, for leasing 
automatic data processing equipment. The purchase of computers or associated hardware and 
software should be requested as items of equipment.
(6) Sub-awards (Subcontracts or Sub-grants): A precise description of services or materials 
that are to be awarded by a sub-award must be provided. For sub-awards totaling $10,000 or 
more, provide the following specific information:
• A clear description of the work to be performed;
• If known, the identification of the proposed sub-awardee and an explanation of why and how the 
sub-awardee was selected or will be selected;
i. The identification of the type of award to be used (cost reimbursement, fixed price, 
etc.); 
ii. Whether or not the award will be competitive and, if noncompetitive, rationale to 
justify the absence of competition; and 
iii. A detailed cost summary.
121
e. ODCs: Itemize and provide the basis for proposed costs for other anticipated direct costs such 
as communications, transportation, insurance, and rental of equipment other than computer 
related items. Unusual or expensive items must be fully explained and justified. 
f. Profit/ Fee: Profit/fee is not allowed for the recipient of or sub-award to an assistance 
instrument, where the principal purpose of the activity to be carried out is to stimulate or 
support a public purpose (i.e., to provide assistance), rather than acquisition (i.e., to acquire 
goods and services for the direct benefit of the Government). A sub-award is an award of 
financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under a DoD 
grant or cooperative agreement by a recipient to an eligible sub-recipient. The term includes 
financial assistance for substantive program performance by the sub-recipient of a portion of 
the program for which the DoD grant or cooperative agreement was made. It does not include 
the recipient's procurement of goods and services needed to carry out the program. 
g. Subcontracting Plan: Subcontracting plans do not apply to assistance instruments. 
h. FCCM: If cost of money is proposed, a completed FCCM (DD Form 1861) is required. 
(End of Section) 
APPENDIX 1: TABLE OF ACRONYMS 
AA Assessment and Analysis 
ACC Army Contracting Command 
AEM Anion Exchange Membrane 
AFARS Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
ALD Atomic Layer Deposition 
AMC Army Materiel Command 
AOR Authorized Organization Representative 
APG Aberdeen Proving Ground 
AR Army Regulation 
ARL Army Research Laboratory 
ARO Army Research Office 
ASA(ALT) Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology 
BAA Broad Agency Announcement 
CAGE Commercial and Government Entity 
CCE Core Campaign Enablers 
CCM Computational Chemistry and Materials 
CE Chemical Energy 
CEA Computational Electromagnetics and Acoustics 
122
CFD Computational Fluid Dynamics 
CFR Code of Federal Regulations 
C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
and Reconnaissance 
CFDA Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance 
COTS Commercial Off the Shelf 
CPFF Cost Plus Fixed Fee 
C-RAM Counter-Rockets, Artillery, and Mortar 
C-UAS Counter Unmanned Aerial System 
CS Computational Sciences 
CSA Chief of Staff of the Army 
CSM Computational Structural Mechanics 
DA Department of Army 
D&B Dun and Bradstreet 
DBA Doing Business Name 
DCAA Defense Contract Audit Agency 
DCMA Defense Contract Management Agency 
DES Discrete Event Simulation 
DFARS Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
DLSC Defense Logistics Service Center 
DoD Department of Defense 
DoDI Department of Defense Instruction 
DoE Design of Experiments 
DSL Doman Specific Language 
DVE Degraded Visual Environment 
EA Electronic Attack 
ECM Energy Coupled to Matter 
EDWOSB Economically-Disadvantaged Woman-Owned Small Business 
EME Electromagnetic Environment 
ET Embedded Training 
EW Electronic Warfare 
FAPIIS Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System 
FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation 
FCCM Facilities Capital Cost of Money 
FFRDC Federally Funded Research and Development Center 
FSC Federal Service Code 
FWA Federal Wide Assurance 
FY Fiscal Year 
G&A General and Administrative 
123
GCS Ground Combat System 
GFD Government Furnished Data 
GFE Government Furnished Equipment 
GFI Government Furnished Information 
GFP Government Furnished Property 
GSA General Service Administration 
HBCU/MI Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving 
Institutions 
HSI Human Systems Integration 
HPC High Performance Computing 
HRPO Human Research Protection Official 
HS Human Sciences 
HSATS Human Systems Analytic Tool Suite 
HSR Human Subjects Research 
HUBZone Historically Underutilized Business Zone 
HWIL Hardware in the Loop 
IE Information Extraction 
IED Improvised Explosive Device 
IMU Inertial Measurement Unit 
IR&D Independent Research and Development 
IRB Institutional Review Board 
IS Information Sciences 
IT Information Technology 
ITAR International Traffic in Arms Regulation 
KCI Key Campaign Initiative 
KE Kinetic Energy 
LED Light Emitting Diodes 
MAR Mixed Augmented Reality 
MAV Manned Aerial Vehicle 
MBE Molecular Beam Epitaxy 
MEMS Microelectromechanical Systems 
METT-TC Mission, Enemy, Terrain and Weather, Troops and Support Available, Time 
Available, Civil Considerations 
M2M Machine to Machine 
MOCVD Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition 
MR Materials Research 
M&S Modeling and Simulation 
MSC Major Subordinate Command 
MT Machine Translation 
124
MTF Modulation Transfer Function 
NLOS Non Line of Sight 
NLP Natural Language Processing 
ODC Other Direct Cost 
OMB Office of Management and Budget 
OHRP Office for Human Research Protections 
OTA Other Transaction for Prototype 
PAM Pamphlet 
PDF Portable Document Format 
PE Programming Environments 
PFN Pulse-Forming Network 
PI Principal Investigator 
PIC Photonic Integrated Circuit 
PNT Position, Navigation, and Timing 
POC Point of Contact 
PPE Personal Protective Equipment 
PWS Performance Work Statement 
R&D Research and Development 
RDECOM Research, Development, and Engineering Command 
ROTC Reserve Officer Training Corps 
R&R Research and Related 
RTP Research Triangle Park 
SAM System for Award Management 
SBS Stimulated Brillouin Scattering 
SbT/MgC Subterranean and Megacity 
ScL/P Sciences for Lethality and Protection 
ScMVR Sciences for Maneuver 
SDB Small Disadvantaged Business 
SDO Suspension and Debarment Official 
SDN Software Defined Network 
SDVOSB Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business 
SF Standard Form 
SLV Survivability, Lethality, and Vulnerability 
S&T Science & Technology 
STTW Sensing Through the Wall 
TBI Traumatic Brain Injury 
TCAD Technology Computer-Aided Design 
T&E Test & Evaluation 
TIA Technology Investment Agreement 
TIC Toxic Industrial Chemical 
125
TIM Toxic Industrial Material 
TIN Taxpayer Identification Number 
TPOC Technical Point of Contact 
TRADOC Training and Doctrine Command 
TTP Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
UAS Unmanned Aerial System 
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle 
UB Underbody Blast 
UIC Unit Identification Code 
UQ Uncertainty Quantification 
U.S.C. United States Code 
USDA/APHIS Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service 
USML United States Munition List 
UWB Ultra-Wideband 
UXO Unexploded Ordinance 
VCSEL Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Laser 
VOSB Veteran-Owned Small Business 
VRAMS Virtual Risk-Informed Agile Maneuver Sustainment 
VSP Visiting Scientist Program 
VTOL Vertical Takeoff and Landing 
WOSB Woman-Owned Small Business 
(End Section) 