i. Space – Like many commercial interests, the Army is interested in exploiting space 
assets to solve a range of problems. Research is needed to improve space-based capabilities in 
the following areas: 
i. Concepts enabling persistent, high-resolution sensing of ground-based features, 
environments, and targets
ii. Concepts enabling low-cost access to space
j. Internet of Things (IOT) – The Army needs to better integrate a wide range of 
capabilities and equipment and capitalize on commercial developments in the industrial IOT.
The Army’s interested is driven in part by the fact that the amount of usable communication 
bandwidth on the battlefield will be dynamic, and as such automated reallocation of 
communication resources and information sharing strategies are more challenging than 
commercial ones. Research is needed to improve Army IOT in the following areas: 
i. New concepts, quantitative models and technical approaches enabling automated 
management of IoT. 
ii. New machine learning techniques that accelerate decision making are needed to address 
the scale/volume of IoT information and advance the science. 
iii. New approaches, low-complexity algorithms, and methods to enable IoT be secure, 
resilient, and to automatically manage and effect risk and uncertainty in a highly deceptive,
mixed cooperative/adversarial, information-centric environment. 
iv. Novel IoT approaches to enable improved training
k. Quantum Technologies – The Army needs to better employ quantum sciences in a 
number of areas to improve the performance and security of its future systems. Research is 
needed in the following areas: 
i. Quantum computing to solve highly complex problems I n real time
ii. Quantum sensing to achieve highly sensitive sensors and enable highly accurate 
navigation
iii. Quantum communications, and networking to enable highly secure and efficient 
information flow
l. Signature reduction – The Army needs to protect its Soldiers by making them harder 
to detect and locate. Research is needed to manage and reduce Army capability signatures in 
the following areas:
i. Technologies, methodologies and concepts to reduce the external signatures of Soldiers 
and of all Army platforms and equipment
ii. Capabilities to reduce RF, optical, thermal, acoustic, magnetic and any other signatures
m. Protection – The Army faces a number of current and future threats which it must 
address to protect it Soldiers. Research is needed to enhance Army capabilities for survival in 
the following areas:
i. Sensors to detect chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive threats
ii. Lightweight, easy to manufacture armor
iii. Cyber protection technologies, methodologies, and concepts to protect Army systems 
including Soldiers, platforms, networks, and munitions
76
n. Human Performance – The Soldier is the foundation of all Army capabilities. 
Technologies that reduce their mental or physical burden, allow them to react faster than their 
adversaries, to manage Research is needed to enhance Soldier capabilities in the following 
areas:
i. Human-machine interaction to insure autonomous platforms are efficiently managed 
and exploited
ii. Measuring effectiveness of and enhancing training tools and techniques
iii. Methodologies and approaches for effective augmentation of Soldiers in areas of 
cognition, perception, and physical performance 
o. Underpinning Methodologies - Methodologies, frameworks, tools, facilities,
techniques, and experimentation concepts, which underpin and enable advanced research and 
development in all of the areas of the TRIAD concept are of interest including those which 
enhance the abilities to:
i. Collect, standardize, transform, and maintain data to focus research and validate 
concepts
ii. Rapid model, develop and assess technologies across widely distributed research teams
iii. Integrate innovative technology applications into current or future warfighting systems, 
applications, and analysis systems to assess the potential operational effectiveness of novel 
new technology elements
iv. Automated data analytics tools and approaches that enhance discovery, development 
and transition management of technologies that address Army capability gaps
Questions regarding this topic must be submitted to the following address: 
usarmy.adelphi.rdecom-arl.mbx.aal-baa-questions@mail.mil.
(End of Section) 
B. Federal Award Information 
The ACC-APG-RTP Division has the authority to award a variety of instruments on behalf of 
ARL. Anticipated awards will be made in the form of contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements, technology investment agreements (TIAs), or other transactions for prototypes 
(OTAs). The ACC-APG-RTP Division reserves the right to select the type of instrument most 
appropriate for the effort proposed. Applicants should familiarize themselves with these 
instrument types and the applicable regulations before submitting a proposal. Following are 
brief descriptions of the possible award instruments: 
1. Procurement Contract. A legal instrument, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6303, which reflects a 
relationship between the Federal Government and a state government, a local government, or 
other entity/contractor when the principal purpose of the instrument is to acquire property or 
services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. 
77
Contracts are primarily governed by the following regulations: 
a. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 
b. Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 
c. Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFARS) 
2. Grant. A legal instrument that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a 
relationship: 
a. The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry 
out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law or the United States, 
rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government’s direct benefit 
or use. 
b. In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal 
Government and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the grant. 
c. No fee or profit is allowed. 
3. Cooperative Agreement. A legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used 
to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition "grant"), except that 
substantial involvement is expected between the Federal Government and the recipient when 
carrying out the activity contemplated by the cooperative agreement. The term does not 
include "cooperative R&D agreements" as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a. No fee or profit is 
allowed. 
4. Technology Investment Agreement (TIA). Assistance transaction other than a Grant or 
Cooperative Agreement (see 32 CFR Part 37). A legal instrument, consistent with 10 U.S.C. 
2371, which may be used when the use of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is not 
feasible or appropriate for basic, applied, and advanced research projects. The research 
covered under a TIA shall not be duplicative of research being conducted under an existing 
DoD program. To the maximum extent practicable, TIA’s shall provide for a 50/50 cost 
share between the government and the applicant. An applicant's cost share may take the form 
of cash, independent research and development (IR&D), foregone intellectual property 
rights, equipment, access to unique facilities, and/or other means. Due to the extent of cost 
share, and the fact that a TIA does not qualify as a "funding agreement" as defined at 37 
CFR 401.2(a), the intellectual property provisions of a TIA can be negotiated to provide 
expanded protection to an applicant's intellectual property. No fee or profit is allowed on 
TIAs. 
5. Other Transaction for Prototype (OTA). A legal instrument, consistent with 10 U.S.C. 237
1b., which may be used when the use of a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is not 
feasible or appropriate for prototype projects directly relevant to enhancing the mission
effectiveness of military personnel and the supporting platforms, systems, components, or 
78
materials proposed to be acquired or developed by the DoD, or to improvement of platforms, 
systems, components, or materials in use by the armed forces. The effort covered under an 
OTA shall not be duplicative of effort being conducted under an existing DoD program 
(please refer to the “Other Transactions” OT Guide for Prototype Projects dated January 
2017 (Version 1.2.0)). This document, along with other OTA resources, may be accessed 
at the following link: http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/10USC2371bOTs.html.
6. Grants and cooperative agreements for institutions of higher education, nonprofit 
organizations, foreign organizations, and foreign public entities are primarily governed by 
the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. 2 CFR Part 200, as modified and supplemented by DoD's interim implementation found 
at 2 CFR Part 1103 
d. 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26, and 28 
e. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
f. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
7. Grants and cooperative agreements for for-profit and nonprofit organizations exempted from 
Subpart E—Cost Principles of 2 CFR Part 200, are primarily governed by the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. 32 CFR Part 34 - Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with ForProfit Organizations 
d. 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26, and 28 
e. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
f. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
8. TIAs are primarily governed by the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. 32 CFR Part 37 – Technology Investment Agreements 
d. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
e. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
9. OTAs are primarily governed by the following: 
a. Federal statutes 
b. Federal regulations 
c. Office of Secretary of Defense implementation guidance titled Other Transactions (OT) 
Guide for Prototype Projects 
10. The following websites may be accessed to obtain an electronic copy of the governing 
regulations and terms and conditions: 
79
a. FAR, DFARS, and AFARS: http://farsite.hill.af.mil/
b. Code of Federal Regulations: http://www.ecfr.gov 
c. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions: 
https://www.onr.navy.mil/Contracts-Grants/submit-proposal/grantsproposal/grantsterms-conditions.aspx 
d. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions: 
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=8 
(End of Section) 
C. Eligibility Information
1. Eligible Applicants
Eligible applicants under this BAA include institutions of higher education, nonprofit 
organizations, state and local governments, foreign organizations, foreign public entities, and 
for-profit organizations (i.e. large and small businesses) for scientific research in mechanical 
sciences, mathematical sciences, electronics, computing science, physics, chemistry, life 
sciences, materials science, network science, and environmental sciences. Whitepapers and 
proposals will be evaluated only if they are for fundamental scientific study and 
experimentation directed toward advancing the scientific state of the art or increasing basic 
knowledge and understanding. Whitepapers and proposals focused on specific devices or 
components are beyond the scope of this BAA.
For foreign public entities or foreign organizations, see Section II.C.3.a below for further 
information. There is no restriction on the place of performance for awards issued under this 
BAA. 
2. Cost Sharing or Matching
Generally, there is no requirement for cost sharing, matching, or cost participation to be 
eligible for award under this BAA. Cost sharing and matching is not an evaluation factor used 
under this BAA. Exceptions may exist if the applicant is proposing the use of a TIA or an 
OTA as an award instrument. Cost-sharing requirements may be found at 32 CFR 37 for TIAs. 
Cost-sharing requirements for OTAs may be found at Section C2.16 COST SHARING in the 
January 2017 document titled “Other Transactions” OT Guide for Prototype Projects. 
In addition, if cost sharing is proposed on a grant or cooperative agreement proposal submitted 
by a nonprofit or institution of higher education, the award will be subject to the restrictions at 
2 CFR 200.306. If cost sharing is proposed on a contract proposal, the award will be subject to 
the restrictions at FAR 35.003. 
80
3. Other 
a. Foreign public entities or foreign organizations are advised that security restrictions 
may apply that could preclude their participation under this BAA. 
b. Pursuant to the policy of FAR 35.017 and supplements, selected Federally Funded 
Research and Development Centers (FFRDC) may propose under this BAA as allowed by 
their sponsoring agency and in accordance with their sponsoring agency policy. 
(End of Section) 
D. Application and Submission Information
1. Address to View Broad Agency Announcement
This BAA may be accessed via the following websites: 
a. Grants.gov (www.grants.gov) 
b. Federal Business Opportunities (www.fbo.gov) 
c. ARL website http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?Action=6&Page=8. 
Amendments to this BAA, if any, will be posted to these websites when they occur. 
Interested parties are encouraged to periodically check these websites for updates and 
amendments. 
The following information is for those wishing to respond to the BAA: 
2. Content and Form of Application Submission
a. General Information
i. Preliminary Inquiries: The ARL receives several hundred research proposals annually. 
Because of financial constraints, we are able to provide support for only a limited number of 
the proposals received. We realize the preparation of a research proposal often represents a 
substantial investment of time and effort by the applicant. Therefore, in an attempt to minimize 
this burden, we strongly encourage applicants interested in submitting proposals to make 
preliminary inquiries as to the general need for the type of research effort contemplated, before 
expending extensive effort in preparing a whitepaper and/or detailed proposal or submitting 
proprietary information. The TPOC names, telephone numbers, and email addresses are listed 
immediately after each research area of interest and they should be contacted, as appropriate, 
prior to the submission of whitepapers or proposals. 
81
*NOTE: The Government will not be obligated by any discussion that arises out of preliminary 
inquiries. 
ii. Classified Submissions: Classified proposals are not expected. However, in an unusual 
circumstance the applicant may be notified that access to classified information and/or 
controlled unclassified information will occur under the work proposed. In those instances 
where a contract is awarded requiring access to classified information and/or controlled 
unclassified information, clause FAR 52.204-2 shall be in effect, as well as a DD254, if issued. 
For questions regarding the potential for access to classified information and/or controlled 
unclassified information, please coordinate with the TPOC for that topic area prior to proposal 
submission. 
iii. Use of Color in Proposals: All proposals received will be stored as electronic images. 
Electronic color images require a significantly larger amount of storage space than black-and
white images. As a result, applicants' use of color in proposals should be minimal and used 
only when necessary for details. Do not use color if it is not necessary. 
iv. Post-Employment Conflict of Interest: There are certain post-employment restrictions 
on former federal employees, including special government employees (18 U.S.C. 207). If a 
prospective applicant believes a conflict of interest may exist, the situation should be discussed 
with the TPOC listed in the BAA for their area of scientific research who will then coordinate 
with appropriate ARL legal counsel prior to the applicant expending time and effort in 
preparing a proposal. 
v. Statement of Disclosure Preference: In accordance with Section II.D.2.e.iii of this BAA, 
Form 52 or 52A shall be completed stating your preference for release of information 
contained in your proposal. Copies of these forms may be downloaded from the ARO web site 
at: http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=29, under "For the Researcher" (Forms, 
ARO BAA Forms). 
NOTE: Proposals may be handled for administrative purposes by support contractors. These 
support contractors are prohibited from submitting proposals under this BAA and are bound by 
non-disclosure and/or conflict of interest requirements as deemed appropriate. 
vi. Equipment (see instrument-specific regulations provided in Section II.B of this BAA): 
Normally, title to equipment or other tangible property purchased with Government funds vests 
with nonprofit institutions of higher education or with nonprofit organizations whose primary 
purpose is conducting scientific research if vesting will facilitate scientific research performed 
for the Government. For-profit organizations are expected to possess the necessary plant and 
equipment to conduct the proposed research. Deviations may be made on a case-by-case basis 
to allow for-profit organizations to purchase equipment but regulatory disposition instructions 
must be followed. 
82
b. The Application Process 
The application process is in three stages as follows: 
i. Stage 1- Verify the accuracy of your Unique Entity Identifier (formerly DUNS) at the 
Dun and Bradstreet (D&B) website http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform before registering with the 
System for Award Management System (SAM) at https://www.sam.gov. Prospective 
applicants must be registered in SAM prior to submitting an application or plan. The SAM 
obtains Legal Business Name, Doing Business Name (DBA), Physical Address, and Postal 
Code/ Zip+4 data fields from D&B. If corrections are required, registrants will not be able to 
enter/modify these fields in SAM; they will be pre-populated using D&B Unique Entity 
Identifier record data. When D&B confirms the correction has been made, the registrant must 
then re-visit sam.gov and click a “yes”' to D&B's changes. Only at this point will the D&B data 
be accepted into the SAM record. Allow a minimum of two (2) business days for D&B to send 
the modified data to SAM. 
ii. Stage 2 - Prospective proposers are requested to submit whitepapers prior to the 
submission of a complete, more detailed proposal. The purpose of whitepapers is to minimize 
the labor and cost associated with the production of detailed proposals that have very little 
chance of being selected for funding. Based on assessment of the whitepapers, feedback will be 
provided to the proposers to encourage or discourage them from submitting proposals. 
Whitepapers should present the effort in sufficient detail to allow evaluation of the concept's 
scientific merit and its potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission. 
iii. Stage 3 - Interested applicants are required to submit proposals. All proposals 
submitted under the terms and conditions cited in this BAA will be reviewed regardless of the 
feedback on, or lack of submission of, a whitepaper. If applicants have not submitted 
whitepapers, proposals may still be submitted for funding consideration. Proposals must be 
submitted in order for the applicant to be considered for funding. 
All proposals for Assistance Instruments must be submitted electronically through Grants.gov 
using Workspace. Proposals for Contracts may be submitted via either Grants.gov or email to:
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. See Section II.D.f of this BAA for information on the 
proposal submission process.
Requests for waiver of electronic submission requirements may be submitted via email to: 
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil or regular mail: 
Army Research Office 
ATTN: RDRL-RO (Proposal Processing) 
P.O. Box 12211 
RTP, NC 27709-2211 
83
All required forms for proposals may be downloaded from the ARO web site at:
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=29, under "For the Researcher" (Forms, ARO 
BAA Forms). 
c. Whitepaper Preparation 
i. Whitepapers should focus on describing details of the proposed research, including how it is 
innovative, how it could substantially increase the scientific state of the art, Army 
relevance, and potential impact. 
ii. Whitepapers are limited to seven (7) total pages; five (5) pages for whitepaper technical 
content, one (1) cover page and a one (1) page addendum as discussed below. Evaluators 
will only review the whitepaper cover page, up to five whitepaper technical content pages, 
and the one-page addendum. 
Whitepapers must be in the following format but do not require any special forms: 
• Page Size: 8 ½ x 11 inches 
• Margins – 1 inch 
• Spacing – single 
• Font – Times New Roman, 12 point 
iii. Combine all files and forms into a single PDF before submitting. 
iv. Format and content of whitepapers: 
(1) COVER PAGE (not to exceed one page): 
The whitepaper cover page shall include at a minimum: Title of the whitepaper, name of the 
individual and organization submitting the whitepaper, the research area and number against 
which the whitepaper is submitted, and the TPOC name. 
(2) TECHNICAL CONTENT (not to exceed five pages): 
(a) A detailed discussion of the effort's scientific research objective, approach, 
relationship to similar research, and level of effort shall be submitted. Also include the nature 
and extent of the anticipated results and, if known, the manner in which the work will 
contribute to the accomplishment of the Army's mission and how this contribution would be 
demonstrated. 
(b) The type of support, if any, the applicant requests of the Government, such as 
facilities, equipment, demonstration sites, test ranges, software, personnel or materials, shall 
be identified as government furnished equipment (GFE), government furnished information 
(GFI), government furnished property (GFP), or government furnished data (GFD). 
Applicants shall indicate any Government coordination that may be required for obtaining 
84
equipment or facilities necessary to perform any simulations or exercises that would 
demonstrate the proposed capability. 
(c) The cost portion of the whitepaper shall contain a brief cost estimate revealing all the 
component parts of the proposal, including research hours, burden, material costs, travel, etc. 
(3) ADDENDUM (not to exceed one page): 
Include biographical sketches of the key personnel who will perform the research, highlighting 
their qualifications and experience. 
v. RESTRICTIVE MARKINGS ON WHITEPAPERS: 
(1) Any proprietary data that the applicant intends to be used only by the Government 
for evaluation purposes must be clearly marked. The applicant must also identify any 
technical data or computer software contained in the whitepaper that is to be treated by the 
Government as limited rights in technical data and restricted rights in computer software. 
In the absence of such identification, the Government will conclude there are no 
limitations or restrictions on technical data or computer software included in the 
whitepaper. Records or data bearing a restrictive legend may be included in the 
whitepaper. It is the intent of the Army to treat all whitepapers as procurement sensitive 
before award and to disclose their contents only for the purpose of evaluation. 
Care must be exercised to ensure that classified, sensitive, and critical technologies are not 
included in a whitepaper. If such information is required, appropriate restrictive markings and 
procedures should be applied prior to submission of the whitepaper. 
(2) Applicants are cautioned, however, that portions of the whitepapers may be subject to 
release under terms of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.
vi. EVALUATION AND DISPOSITION OF WHITEPAPERS: 
(1) Evaluation Process: Applicants are advised that invitations for proposals will be made 
based on the whitepaper submission and the availability of funding. The whitepaper will be 
evaluated for the concept's scientific merit and potential contributions of the effort to the 
Army mission. Applicants whose whitepapers are evaluated as having significant scientific 
merit may be invited to submit a proposal. However, an applicant may submit a proposal 
despite not submitting a whitepaper or receiving a proposal invite from the Government. 
(2) Disposition Process: The applicant will be notified in writing after completion of the 
evaluation. Whitepapers will not be returned to applicants. 
d. Whitepaper Submission 
85
All whitepapers must be emailed directly to the TPOC. In the email subject line, include the 
phrase “Whitepaper Submission,” the BAA number W911NF-17-S-0003, and the research 
topic number from Section II.A of this BAA. Whitepapers submitted via email must be in a 
single PDF formatted file as an email attachment. 
e. Preparation of Proposals
i. COVER PAGE: 
(1) A Cover Page is required. For contract proposals submitted by email, use ARO Form 51. 
For all Assistance instruments and contract proposals submitted via Grants.gov, use the 
Standard Form (SF) 424 (Research and Related (R&R)) Form. Proposals will not be processed 
without either: (1) a signed Cover Page, ARO Form 51, or (2) a SF 424 (R&R) Form. 
(2) Should the project be carried out at a branch campus or other component of the applicant, 
that branch campus or component should be identified in the space provided (Block 11 on 
the ARO Form 51 and Block 12 on the SF 424 (R&R) Form). 
(3) The title of the proposed project should be brief, scientifically representative, intelligible to 
a scientifically-literate reader, and suitable for use in the public domain. 
(4) The proposed duration for which support is requested should be consistent with the nature 
and complexity of the proposed activity. Applicants shall discuss the preferred 
performance period with the TPOC. 
(5) Specification of a desired starting date for the project is important and helpful; however, 
requested effective dates cannot be guaranteed. 
(6) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 
[Section 31001(I)(1), Public Law 104-134] and implemented by 32 CFR 22.420(d), federal 
agencies shall obtain each awardees’ Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The TIN is 
being obtained for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amounts that 
may arise out of an awardees’ relationship with the Government. 
(7) Applicants shall provide their organization's Unique Entity Identifier (formerly DUNS). 
This number is a nine-digit number assigned by D&B Information Services. See Section 
II.D.3 of this BAA for requirements pertaining to the Unique Entity Identifier. 
(8) Applicants shall provide their assigned Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) 
Code. The CAGE Code is a 5-character code assigned and maintained by the Defense 
Logistics Service Center (DLSC) to identify a commercial plant or establishment. 
86
ii. TABLE OF CONTENTS: 
Use the following format for the Table of Contents. Forms are available at 
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=29 under "For the Researcher" (Forms, ARO 
BAA Forms). 
SECTION PAGE NUMBER 
Table of Contents A-1 
Statement of Disclosure Preference (Form 52 or 52A) B-1 
Research and Related Other Project Information B-2 
Project Abstract C-1 
Project Description (Technical Proposal) D-1 - D-
Biographical Sketch E-1 - E-
Bibliography F-1 - F-
Current and Pending Support G-1 - G-
Facilities, Equipment, and Other Resources H-1 - H-
Proposal Budget I-1 - I-
Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money(FCCM) (DD Form 1861) J-1 
Appendices K-
List Appendix Items: 
This format applies to all proposals submitted via email and via Grants.gov. Applicants' 
should show the location of each section of the proposal, as well as major subdivisions of the 
project description. 
iii. STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE PREFERENCE (FORM 52 OR 52A): Complete and 
sign ARO Form 52 (Industrial Contractors) or ARO Form 52A (Educational and Nonprofit 
Organizations). 
87
iv. RESEARCH AND RELATED OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION: Must be completed 
and signed by all applicants. 
v. PROJECT ABSTRACT: 
(1) The project abstract shall be completed on the form entitled “Publicly Releasable Project 
Abstract” found at the following website: 
http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=218. 
(2) Unless otherwise instructed in this BAA, the project abstract shall include a concise 
statement of work and basic approaches to be used in the proposed effort. The abstract 
should include a statement of scientific objectives, methods to be employed, and the 
significance of the proposed effort to the advancement of scientific knowledge. 
(3) The abstract should be no longer than one (1) page (maximum 4,000 characters). 
(4) The project abstract shall be marked by the applicant as publically releasable. By 
submission of the project abstract, the applicant confirms that the abstract is releasable to the 
public. For a proposal that results in a grant award, the project abstract will be posted to a 
searchable website available to the general public to meet the requirements of Section 8123 
of the DoD Appropriations Act, 2015. The website address is:
https://dodgrantawards.dtic.mil/grants. 
vi. PROJECT DESCRIPTION (TECHNICAL PROPOSAL): The technical portion of the 
proposal shall contain the following: 
(1) A complete discussion stating the background and objectives of the proposed work, 
the scientific approaches to be considered, the relationship to competing or related research, 
and the level of effort to be employed. Include also the nature and extent of the anticipated 
results and how they will significantly advance the scientific state-of-the-art. Also, if 
known, include the manner in which the work will contribute to the accomplishment of the 
Army's mission. Ensure the proposal identifies any scientific uncertainties and describes 
specific approaches for the resolution or mitigation of the uncertainties. 
(2) A brief description of your organization. If the applicant has extensive government 
contracting experience and has previously provided the information to the ARL, the 
information need not be provided again. A statement setting forth this condition should be 
made. 
(3) The names of other federal, state, local agencies, or other parties receiving the 
proposal and/or funding the proposed effort. If none, state so. Concurrent or later 
submission of the proposal to other organizations will not prejudice its review by the ARL 
if we are kept informed of the situation. 
88
(4) A statement regarding possible impact, if any, of the proposed effort on the 
environment, considering as a minimum its effect upon water, atmosphere, natural 
resources, human resources, and any other values. 
(5) A statement regarding the use of Class I and Class II ozone- depleting substances. 
Ozone depleting substances are any substance designated as Class I by EPA, including but 
not limited to chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl chloroform, 
and any substance designated as Class II by EPA, including but not limited to 
hydrochlorofluorocarbons. See 40 CFR Part 82 for detailed information. If Class I or II 
substances are to be utilized, a list shall be provided as part of the applicant's proposal. If 
none, state so. 
(6) The type of support, if any, requested by the applicant (e.g., facilities, equipment, and 
materials). 
vii. BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH: 
(1) This section shall contain the biographical sketches for key personnel only. 
(a) Primary Principal Investigator (PI): The Primary PI provides a single or initial point of 
communication between the ARL and the awardee organization(s) about scientific 
matters. If not otherwise designated, the first PI listed will serve as the Primary PI. This 
individual can be changed with notification to ARL. ARL does not infer any additional 
scientific stature to this role among collaborating investigators. 
(b) Co-Principal Investigators: The individual(s) a research organization designates as 
having an appropriate level of authority and responsibility for the proper conduct of the 
research and submission of required reports to ARL. When an organization designates 
more than one PI, it identifies them as individuals who share the authority and 
responsibility for leading and directing the research, intellectually and logistically. 
ARL does not infer any distinction among multiple PIs. 
(2) The following information is required: 
(a) Relevant experience and employment history including a description of any prior 
Federal employment within one year preceding the date of proposal submission. 
(b) List of up to five publications most closely related to the proposed project and up to five 
other significant publications, including those being printed. Patents, copyrights, or 
software systems developed may be substituted for publications. 
(c) List of persons, other than those cited in the publications list, who have collaborated on 
a project or a book, article, report or paper within the last four years. Include pending 
publications and submissions. Otherwise, state "None."