12DEVCOM ARMY RESEARCH
LABORATORY BROAD AGENCY 
ANNOUNCEMENT FOR FOUNDATIONAL 
RESEARCH
W911NF-23-S-0002
21 November 2022 – 20 November 2027
ISSUED BY:
U.S. Army Contracting Command 
Aberdeen Proving Ground
Research Triangle Park Division
P. O. Box 12211
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-2211
Special Notes
1. Formatting of the Announcement
The following table provides an overview of the outline structure of this announcement:
I.
A.
1.
a.
i.
(1)
(a)
(i)
2. See Appendix 1 for a Table of Acronyms used in this announcement.
3. See Appendix 2 for a Schedule of Amendments. Applicants are encouraged to frequently 
check grants.gov, sam.gov, and the ARL website (www.arl.army.mil/) for updates and 
amendments to this BAA. Special Notices issued against this BAA will be posted to sam.gov.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. OVERVIEW OF THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY 1
A. Required Overview Content 3
1. Agency Name 3
2. Research Opportunity Title 3
3. Announcement Type 3
4. Research Opportunity Number 3
5. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number 
and Title
3
6. Response Dates 3
B. Additional Overview Information 3
II. DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUNDING 
OPPORTUNITY
5
A. Program Description 5
1. Foundational Research Topics of Interest 5
2. Army Research Directorate Targeted Opportunities 6
3. Army Research Office Targeted Opportunities 7
a. Single Investigator Award 7
b. Short-Term Innovative Research Award 7
c. Early Career Program 8
d. Research Instrumentation Program 9
e. Conference and Symposia Grants 10
B. Federal Award Information 12
C. Eligibility Information 15
1. Eligible Applicants 15
2. Cost Sharing or Matching 15
3. Other 15
D. Application and Submission Information 16
1. Address to View Broad Agency Announcement 16
2. Content and Form of Application Submission 16
3. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award 
Management (SAM)
30
4. Submission Dates and Times 31
5. Intergovernmental Review 32
6. Funding Restrictions 32
7. Other Submission Requirements 32
E. Proposal Review Information 33
1. Evaluation Criteria 33
2. Review and Selection Process 34
3. Recipient Qualification 41
F. Award Administration Information 44
1. Award Notices 44
2. Administrative and National Policy Requirements 44
a. Required Representations and Certifications 44
b. Policy Requirements 48
3. Reporting 54
G. Agency Contacts 55
H. Other Information 56
1. Contract Proposals 56
2. Grant and Cooperative Agreement Proposals 63
APPENDIX 1: TABLE OF ACRONYMS 68
APPENDIX 2: SCHEDULE OF AMENDMENTS 71
1
I. OVERVIEW OF THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY
The purpose of this combined Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) under Federal Acquisition 
Regulation (FAR) Part 35 and Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) under 2 Code of 
Federal Regulations (CFR) 200.204 (henceforth referred to as “BAA”) is to solicit research 
proposals for submission to the U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Development Command 
(DEVCOM) Army Research Laboratory (ARL) for funding consideration.
Prior to this announcement, ARL announced two separate BAAs to support the mission: 1) 
W911NF-17-S-0002 titled “Army Research Laboratory Army Research Office Broad Agency 
Announcement for Fundamental Research”; and 2) W911NF-17-S-0003 titled “Army Research 
Laboratory Broad Agency Announcement for Basic and Applied Scientific Research”. This 
announcement succeeds BAA W911NF-17-S-0002 and BAA W911NF-17-S-0003 combining the 
opportunities into a single announcement.
ARL’s mission as the Army’s foundational research laboratory is to Operationalize Science to 
ensure overmatch in any future conflict. ARL’s foundational research mission spans basic 
research (budget activity 6.1) and applied research (budget activity 6.2) as defined by 32 CFR
22.105 but may include advanced technology development (budget activity 6.3) and advanced 
component development and prototypes (budget activity 6.4) when opportunities arise to directly 
or indirectly help achieve ARL’s mission. ARL partners across the national security enterprise to 
deliver fundamentally advantageous change that is rooted in the creation and exploitation of 
scientific knowledge.
Whitepapers for initial concept reviews and full proposals are sought from institutions of higher 
education, nonprofit organizations, state and local governments, foreign organizations, foreign 
public entities, and for-profit organizations (i.e. large and small businesses) for scientific research 
that supports the ARL mission and the published ARL research topics of interest. Whitepapers 
and full proposals are expected to be for cutting-edge innovative research that could produce 
discoveries having a significant impact on enabling new and improved Army operational 
capabilities and related technologies.
In an effort to provide ARL's research topics and related information in an easy to digest format 
with search and filter options, ARL has published the following public website listing all current 
ARL research topics: https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/, hereafter referenced as the 
ARL BAA topics website. Changes to these topics will be made using this website on an as 
needed basis. A change to the ARL BAA topics website is not an amendment to this BAA and 
will not be posted on https://www.grants.gov/ and https://sam.gov/. A change to this document, 
the BAA itself, is an amendment and will be posted on https://www.grants.gov/ and 
https://sam.gov/. ARL will maintain a daily static snapshot of the ARL BAA topics website to 
ensure submissions are aligned with listed research topics on the day of submission.
Interested parties are encouraged to continually browse the ARL BAA topics website for white 
paper and proposal topics that ARL desires to explore. These specific research topics should be 
viewed as suggestive, rather than limiting. ARL is always interested in considering other 
innovative research concepts of relevance to the Army if those concepts align with ARL's mission. 
Please see Section II, Detailed Information about the Funding Opportunity, for more information
2
on the ARL research topics advertised through this BAA. Interested parties should also review 
https://www.grants.gov/ and https://sam.gov/ to obtain the latest version of the BAA for 
whitepaper and proposal submission requirements.
To conserve valuable applicant and Government resources, and to facilitate determining whether a 
proposed research idea meets the guidelines described herein, prospective applicants 
contemplating submission of a whitepaper or proposal are strongly encouraged to contact an ARL 
Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) to first discuss the concept. The TPOCs’ names and contact 
information are listed within each topic description on the ARL BAA topics website.
After initial contact with an ARL TPOC, if an applicant elects to submit a whitepaper or proposal, 
it should be prepared in accordance with the instructions contained in this BAA. Upon receipt, a 
whitepaper will be reviewed by the ARL TPOC and a recommendation will be provided to the 
applicant with either “encouraged to submit a proposal” or “not encouraged to submit a proposal” 
based on the review and availability of funding. A whitepaper is not required to submit a proposal. 
Proposals may be submitted at any time while this BAA is open.
The proposal submission guidelines differ for each legal instrument; therefore, applicants are 
advised to follow the specific applicable guidelines listed in this BAA for the type of instrument 
they are proposing. This BAA provides submission guidelines for proposals for FAR-based 
procurement contracts, as well as assistance instruments and other transactions. Upon review of a 
proposal, the government will advise applicants on the most appropriate instrument for the 
proposed work.
In accordance with federal statutes, regulations, and Department of Defense and Army policies, no 
person on grounds of race, color, age, sex, national origin, or disability shall be excluded from 
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or 
activity receiving financial assistance from the Army.
Applicants submitting proposals are cautioned that only a Contracting Officer, Grants Officer, or 
Agreements Officer can obligate the Government to any legal instrument involving federally 
appropriated funds.
All administrative inquiries regarding this BAA shall be submitted via the ARL Contact Us 
webpage: https://www.arl.army.mil/contact-us. Scientific and technical questions should be 
referred to the TPOCs listed with each topic on the ARL BAA topics website: 
https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/. Interested parties are encouraged to periodically 
check any of the following websites for updates and amendments to this BAA: 
https://www.grants.gov/, https://sam.gov/, or the ARL website BAA page at 
https://www.arl.army.mil/collaborate-with-us/opportunity/arl-baa/.
DR. PATRICK BAKER
Director
Army Research Laboratory 
(End of Section)
3
A. Required Overview Content
1. Agency Name
U.S. Army Research Office
Issuing Acquisition Office
U.S. Army Contracting Command-Aberdeen Proving Ground, Research Triangle Park (ACCAPG-RTP) Division
2. Research Opportunity Title
ARL Broad Agency Announcement (BAA)for Foundational Research for 21 November 2022 – 20 
November 2027
3. Announcement Type
Announcement
4. Research Opportunity Number
W911NF-23-S-0001
5. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number and Title
12.431 – Basic Scientific Research
6. Response Dates
This BAA is a continuously open announcement valid throughout the period from the date of 
issuance through 20 November 2027, unless announced otherwise. This announcement succeeds 
BAA W911NF-17-S-0002 and W911NF-17-S-0003 (including all modifications) dated 1 April 
2017.
(End of Section)
B. Additional Overview Information
This publication constitutes a BAA for awards as contemplated in FAR 6.102(d)(2) and 35.016 
as well as a merit-based, competitive procedure in accordance with the Department of Defense 
Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARS) at 32 CFR 22.315(a) and the Office of the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment Other Transaction Guide version
1.0 dated November, 2018.
This BAA document, and the online list of research topics found on the ARL BAA topics 
website at https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/, sets forth ARL’s research topics of 
interest for whitepapers and proposals. This BAA is issued under FAR 6.102(d)(2), which 
provides for the competitive selection of basic and applied research proposals, and 10 U.S.C. 
4001, 10 U.S.C. 4021, and 10 U.S.C. 4022, which provide the authorities for issuing awards
4
under this announcement for basic and applied research. The definitions of basic and applied 
research may be found at 32 CFR 22.105.
Proposals submitted in response to this BAA and selected for award are considered to be the 
result of full and open competition and in full compliance with the provision of Public Law 98-
369, “The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984” and subsequent amendments.
Use of a BAA to solicit for research and development is encouraged when:
1. The Government desires new and creative solutions to problem statements.
2. Using a conventional statement of work could result in unintentionally stifling ideas and 
concepts given many possible approaches.
3. Fulfilling requirements for scientific study and experimentation directed toward advancing 
the state-of-the-art or increasing knowledge or understanding rather than focusing on a 
specific system or hardware solution.
4. The Government must be able to state its objectives in terms of areas of need or interest 
rather than specific solutions or outcomes.
5. Meaningful proposals with varying technical/scientific approaches are reasonably 
anticipated.
ARL reserves the right to select for award all, some, or none of the proposals submitted in 
response to this announcement. ARL will provide no funding for direct reimbursement of 
whitepaper or proposal development costs and such costs are not considered an allowable direct 
charge to any award resulting from this BAA or any other award. However, these costs may be 
an allowable expense to the normal bid and proposal indirect costs specified in FAR 31.205-18 
for FAR-based awards.
Whitepapers and technical and cost proposals (or any other material) submitted in response to this 
BAA will not be returned to the applicant. It is the policy of the Government to treat all proposals 
as sensitive, competitive information and to mark and disclose their contents only for the purposes 
of evaluation.
An applicant may withdraw a proposal at any time before award by written notice or by email 
sent to the Government TPOC identified for the topic in which the proposal was submitted.
(End of Section)
5
II. DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY
A. Program Description
1. Foundational Research Topics of Interest
ARL’s mission is to serve as the Army’s principal foundational research agency. ARL is 
interested in all research proposals that can be shown to enable the future Army to deploy, 
fight, and win decisively against any adversary, anytime, and anywhere, in a joint, multidomain, high-intensity conflict, while simultaneously deterring others and maintaining its 
ability to conduct irregular warfare.
ARL comprises both the Army Research Directorate (ARD) and the Army Research Office 
(ARO) whose programs execute research awards under this BAA. The ARD and ARO 
missions are further defined below to help clarify the different opportunities and topic types 
that may be found on ARL’s website.
ARL, through its ARD programs focuses on exploiting the most promising disruptive science 
and technology through in-house research with eligible entities. ARD competitively selects 
and funds innovative research concepts that can advance in-house research. ARD primarily 
funds basic research proposals (budget activity 6.1) and applied research proposals (budget 
activity 6.2) but may also select and fund advanced technology development (budget activity 
6.3) and advanced component development and prototypes (budget activity 6.4) to exploit 
ARL’s foundational research outcomes and directly or indirectly help achieve ARL’s mission. 
The results of these research efforts are transitioned to the Army research and development 
community, industry, or academia to further the technological superiority of our Soldiers, 
Army, and nation. ARD-funded research represents a long-range Army view with system 
applications often 10-20 years away. ARD does not invest in incremental modernization 
improvements, but does invest in high-risk, high-payoff ideas in basic and applied science that 
can advance the in-house research mission. Historically, most of the ARD awards are executed 
as cooperative agreements but can include grants, procurement contracts, research other 
transactions (OTs) and prototype OTs. For a description of ARD targeted opportunities, see 
section 2 below.
ARL, through its ARO extramural research program, funds cutting-edge foundational research 
that could result in innovations having a significant impact on enabling new and improved 
Army operational capabilities and related technologies. ARO selects and funds eligible entities 
conducting scientific studies and experimentation toward advancing the state of the art or 
increasing basic knowledge and understanding across the sciences. ARO competitively selects 
and funds basic research proposals across a broad range of scientific disciplines related to longterm national security needs. ARO primarily funds basic research proposals (budget activity 
6.1) but may also select and fund applied research proposals (budget activity 6.2). The results 
of these research efforts are transitioned to the Army research and development community, 
industry, or academia to further the technological superiority of our Soldiers, Army, and nation. 
ARO-funded research represents the most long-range Army view, with system applications
6
often 20–30 years away. The goal of ARO funding research proposals through this BAA is to 
pursue high-risk, high-payoff ideas in basic science. In this manner, ARO provides the Army 
with a dynamic method for rapidly investing or divesting in research to ensure the realization 
of foundational discoveries that will enable future Army capabilities. ARO has allocated 
funding each year to carry out the Army’s Extramural Research Program to fund foundational 
research proposals. Most of the ARO awards are executed primarily through grants and 
cooperative agreements, but also can include procurement contracts and other funding 
instruments. ARO also provides targeted opportunities, which are described in section 3 below.
In an effort to provide ARL’s research topics and related information in an easy to digest 
format with search and filter options, ARL has published the following public website listing 
all current ARL research topics: https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/, the ARL 
BAA topics website. Interested parties are encouraged to continually browse this website to 
see the topics ARL is interested in.
To support ARL’s mission, an additional research topic for “Support to ARL Foundation 
Research Competencies” can be found on the ARL BAA topics website. Under this research 
topic, ARL will consider whitepapers and proposals that may not directly align to a topic 
published by an ARL TPOC, but can demonstrate a strong alignment to ARL’s mission.
ARL’s research mission is executed within identified foundational research competencies that 
provide the Army foundational expertise and specialized capabilities grounded in scientific 
excellence and driven by unique Army challenges. ARL is always interested in innovative 
research whitepapers and proposals outside of the published topics on the ARL BAA topic 
website that demonstrate a strong alignment to ARL’s foundational research competencies and 
potential to create discovery, innovation, and transition of technologies for Army 
transformational overmatch. To learn more about ARL’s foundational research competencies 
visit the ARL website at https://www.arl.army.mil/what-we-do#competencies/.
A proposal submitted under the “Support to ARL Foundation Research Competencies” topic 
must clearly describe the research and objectives, and will be considered by ARL if it is 
aligned to one or more of these foundational research competencies that support the ARL 
mission. Applicants interested in submitting a proposal under this topic are strongly 
encouraged to first make preliminary inquiries as to the potential alignment to an ARL 
foundational research competency and funding availability for the type of research effort 
contemplated to the listed TPOC on the ARL BAA topics website.
2. Army Research Directorate (ARD) Targeted Opportunities
ARD has no established targeted opportunities outside of the research topics considered for 
funding proposals submitted under this BAA. Discussion with the cognizant ARD TPOC 
identified for a given ARD research topic published on the ARL public website is strongly 
recommended before submission of a whitepaper or proposal.
7
3. Army Research Office (ARO) Targeted Opportunities
ARO has established several types of targeted opportunities to support ARO research topics, 
based on applications submitted under this BAA. Information about the following 
opportunities is included below:
• Single Investigator (SI) Award
• Short-Term Innovative Research (STIR) Award
• Early Career Program (ECP) Award
• Research Instrumentation (RI) Award
• Conference and Symposia Grant Award
Unless special eligibility requirements are listed, the eligibility criteria of Section II.C applies.
Also, see Section II.E.1 of this BAA for the evaluation criteria related to these opportunities. 
NOTE: ARO is not limited to funding these targeted opportunities; however, they represent 
most awards ARO is expected to make.
a. Single Investigator (SI) Award
i. Description. SI awards are the most common awards. The objective of the award is to attract 
outstanding individuals to propose research projects related to the ARO research topics that
will result in scientific discoveries.
iii. Research Sought. Proposals are sought for research that supports the ARO research topics 
identified on the ARL BAA topics website at https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/. 
As is the case for all other award types, discussions with the cognizant ARO TPOC identified 
for a given topic at the ARL BAA topics website is strongly recommended before submission 
of a whitepaper or proposal. The proposal is submitted by the institution where the individual 
is employed.
iv. Funding Level: ARO encourages discussions with ARO TPOCs for appropriate budget 
levels depending on the scope of effort. ARO’s standard funding levels for SI awards would 
support a budget for three years at a level commensurate with supporting a single investigator 
and one or two graduate students or a post-doc for three years (to include facilities and 
administrative [F&A] costs).
b. Short-Term Innovative Research (STIR) Award
i. Description. The objectives of the STIR awards are to support rapid, short-term 
investigations to assess the merit of innovative new concepts in basic research. STIR awards 
provide an excellent opportunity to showcase new concepts and explore new areas in basic 
research. Historically, STIR awards have helped shape new directions in research for the 
Army.
8
ii. Research Sought. Proposals are sought for research that supports the ARO research topics 
identified on the ARL BAA topics website at https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arlbaa/. As is the case for all other award types, discussions with the cognizant ARO TPOC 
identified for a given topic is strongly recommended before submission of a whitepaper or 
proposal for a STIR award.
iii. Funding Level. Proposals in the amount of $60,000 or less are sought for STIR 
awards. Capital equipment cannot be purchased under a STIR Program award. Report
preparation costs must not exceed $100. A fee is not permitted under STIR Program awards as 
they are awarded as grants. Due to the relatively small dollar amount and short-term nature of 
these awards, applicants are encouraged to maximize the benefit derived from this funding by
prioritizing labor and employing other cost-saving measures in support of the STIR program 
effort.
iv. Special Proposal Preparation Instructions for STIR Awards.
Applicants should submit proposals with a Project Description (Technical Proposal) that is no 
more than ten (10) pages long. No brochures or explanatory material should be submitted with 
the proposal. Proposed research efforts must be "stand alone" and not predicated on the use of 
any facilities other than those under the direct control of the applicant. Research must be 
completed within nine (9) months of award.
c. Early Career Program (ECP) Award
i. Description. ECP awards are funded by the Army to support early career scientists and 
engineers who show exceptional ability and promise for conducting basic research. This 
targeted opportunity is open to U.S. citizens, U.S. Nationals, or Lawful Permanent Residents of 
the U.S. who have held a tenure-track position at a U.S. institution of higher education for 
fewer than five years at the time of application. Faculty at an institution of higher education 
which does not designate a faculty appointment as "tenure track" are eligible if that fact is so 
indicated in the proposal, and the supporting letter from the institute states that the faculty 
member submitting the proposal will be considered for a permanent appointment. The 
objective of the ECP Award is to foster creative basic research in science and engineering; 
enhance development of outstanding early career investigators; and increase opportunities for 
early career investigators to pursue research in areas relevant to the Army.
ii. Research Sought. Proposals are sought for research that supports the ARO research topics 
identified on the ARL BAA topics website at https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/.
As is the case for all other award types, discussions with the cognizant ARO TPOC identified 
for a given topic is strongly recommended before submission of a whitepaper or proposal.
iii. Funding Level. ECP awards will not exceed $120,000 per year for 3 years.
iv. Special Proposal Preparation Instructions for ECP Awards.
NOTE: The proposal is submitted by the institution where the individual is employed. The 
proposal must include a supporting letter, both through official channels in the institution 
9
where the individual is employed. The proposal must follow the format set forth in Section
II.D.2 (Application and Submission Information) of this BAA. The supporting letter must be 
from the individual's Department Chairperson, Dean, Supervisor, or other official who speaks
for the institution, and should address support for, and commitment to, the applicant. Strong 
institution support for the applicant is essential. Evidence of this support can include the 
applicant's salary, release time from administrative responsibilities, the purchase of equipment, 
support for the applicant's graduate students, any cost sharing, any start-up funding, etc. The 
proposal must support the institution’s views that the individual is an outstanding investigator, 
and the institution is making a long-term commitment to the proposal and the research. Any 
resulting award will be made to the institution, not to the investigator.
d. Research Instrumentation (RI) Award
i. Description. RI awards are designed to improve the capabilities of U.S. institutions of higher 
education or a nonprofit whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research to conduct 
research and educate scientists and engineers in areas important to national defense. Funds 
provided in this award may be used to purchase instrumentation in support of this research or in 
the development of new research capabilities.
ii. Special Eligibility Requirements. RI awards are open to U.S. institutions of higher 
education and nonprofit organizations whose primary research is conducting scientific research 
in accordance with 31 USC §6306.
iii. RI and Research Topics. The RI program may provide funding to purchase 
instrumentation in support of ARO research topics listed on the ARL BAA topics website at 
https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/ or in the development of new research 
capabilities. It is highly recommended that potential applicants contact the appropriate ARO 
TPOC identified for a topic that aligns to this instrumentation proposal. The ARO TPOCs’ 
names and contact information are listed within each topic description on the ARL BAA topics 
website.
iv. Funding Level. ARO highly encourages discussions with ARO TPOCs of appropriate 
budget levels prior to the submission of RI proposals.
v. Special Proposal Preparation Instructions for RI Awards.
The request for instrumentation shall include the following elements:
(1) The “Project Abstract” is to describe the instrumentation requested and the research to be 
supported by that instrumentation.
(2) The “Project Description (Technical Proposal)” is to describe how the proposed 
instrumentation will: (i) establish new research capabilities, (ii) contribute to research currently 
proposed to DoD, or (iii) enhance the quality of research currently being funded by ARL. It 
will also include a description of how the proposed instrumentation will interface with or 
upgrade other research facilities and instrumentation now available. Finally, a description will 
be included of the amounts and sources of ongoing or proposed support for the research to be 
10
supported by the instrumentation.
(3) In the “Cost Proposal,” the budget is to address the instrumentation to be purchased, cost 
per item, and total cost. Indicate the proposed source of the instrumentation and the name and 
telephone number of a contact at that source. The budget should indicate the amount of funds 
to be contributed by any other sources toward the purchase of the instrumentation. Note: Costs 
associated with equipment/facility modifications are generally considered unallowable and 
require the review and approval of the Grants Officer.
e. Conference and Symposia Grant Awards
i. Description. The Army supports conferences and symposia (as defined in the DoD 
Travel Regulations) in areas of science that bring expertstogether to discuss recent research 
or educational findings or to expose other researchers or advanced graduate students to new 
research and educational techniques. The Army encourages the convening in the United 
States of major international conferences, symposia, and assemblies of international 
alliances.
ii. Special Eligibility Requirements. Notwithstanding the Army's authority to provide grant 
support for such events DoD does not permit "co-sponsorship" (as defined in DoD 5500.07-R) 
absent additional high-level staffing and approval. In other words, the conference grant support 
identified in this BAA is not DoD sponsorship or co-sponsorship since ARL is neither an 
organizer nor provider of any substantial logistical support for the conferences addressed in this 
section. Funds provided cannot be used for payment to any federal government employee for 
support, subsistence, or services in connection with the proposed conference or symposium.
iii. Connection with ARO Research Topics. The Army supports conferences and symposia in 
areas of science that bring experts together to discuss recent research or educational findings or 
to expose other researchers or advanced graduate students to new research and educational 
techniques. It is highly recommended that potential applicants contact the appropriate TPOC 
identified for a topic that aligns to the conference/symposia proposal. The ARO TPOCs’ 
names and contact information are listed within each topic description on the ARL BAA topics 
website at https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/.
iv. Funding Level. ARO highly encourages discussions with ARO TPOCs of appropriate 
budget levels prior to the submission of conference or symposia award applications.
v. Special Proposal Preparation Instructions for Conference or Symposia Awards.
(1) Conference support proposals should be submitted a minimum of six (6) months prior to the 
date of the conference. A proposal will not be funded if the conference date has already passed.
(2) The “Project Description (Technical Proposal)”, as discussed in for support of a conference 
or symposium should include the following:
• A one page or lesssummary indicating the objectives of the project;
• The topics to be covered;
• The location and probable date(s) and why the conference is considered appropriate at the
11
time specified;
• An explanation of how the conference will relate to the research interests of the Army and 
how it will contribute to the enhancement and improvement of scientific, engineering, 
and/or educational activities as outlined earlier in the research topic references in this 
BAA and on the ARL website;
• The name of chairperson(s)/principal investigator (PI)(s) and his/her biographical 
information;
• A list of proposed participants and the methods of announcement or invitation; and
(3) The “Cost Proposal” should include:
• Total project conference costs by major cost elements;
• Anticipated sources of conference income and amount from each source to document no 
profit will accrue to the applicant;
• Anticipated use of funds requested; and
• A signed budget.
(End of Section)
12
B. Federal Award Information
The ACC-APG RTP Division and ACC-APG Adelphi Contracting Division have the authority 
to award a variety of instruments on behalf of ARL. Anticipated awards will be made in
the form of procurement contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, Technology 
Investment Agreement (TIA), other transactions (OTs) for research, or OTs for 
prototypes. The ACC-APG RTP Division and ACC-APG Adelphi Contracting Division will 
select the type of instrument most appropriate for the effort proposed. Applicants should 
familiarize themselves with these instrument types and the applicable regulations before 
submitting a proposal. The Following are brief descriptions of the possible award 
instruments:
1. Procurement Contract. A legal instrument, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6303, which 
reflects a relationship between the Federal Government and a state government, a local 
government, or other entity/contractor when the principal purpose of the instrument is to 
acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. 
Contracts are primarily governed by the following regulations:
a. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
b. Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS)
c. Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFARS)
2. Grant. A legal instrument, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a 
relationship:
a. The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry 
out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law or the United States, 
rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government’s direct benefit 
or use.
b. In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal Government and 
the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the grant.
c. No fee or profit is allowed.
3. Cooperative Agreement. A legal instrument, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to 
enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition “grant”), except that 
substantial involvement is expected between the Federal Government and the recipient 
when carrying out the activity contemplated by the cooperative agreement. The term 
does not include “cooperative research and development agreements” as defined in 15
U.S.C. 3710a. No fee or profit is allowed.
4. Technology Investment Agreement. An assistance instrument as described in 32 CFR 
Part 37. A TIA may be a cooperative agreement or an Other Transaction for Research 
under 10 U.S.C. 4021 both with provisions tailored for involving commercial firms or 
research involving commercial application. To the maximum extent practicable, TIAs 
shall provide for a 50/50 cost share between the Government and the applicant. No fee 
or profit is allowed on TIAs.
5. Other Transaction for Research. A legal instrument, consistent with 10 U.S.C. 4021,
13
which may be used for basic, applied, and advanced research projects. The research 
covered under thisinstrument cannot be duplicative of research being conducted under an 
existing DoD program. To the maximum extent practicable, OTsforresearch are to 
provide for a 50/50 cost share between the Government and the applicant. An 
applicant’s cost share may take the form of cash, independent research and development 
(IR&D), foregone intellectual property rights, equipment, access to unique facilities, 
and/or other means. Due to the extent of cost share, and the fact that an OT for research 
does not qualify as a “funding agreement” as defined at 37 CFR 401.2(a), the intellectual 
property provisions of this instrument can be negotiated to provide expanded protection 
to an applicant’s intellectual property. No fee or profit is allowed on OTs for research. 
Please refer to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment Other Transaction Guide version 1.0 dated November 2018 for additional 
information. This document, along with additional other transaction agreement (OTA) 
resources, may be accessed at the following link: 
https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/policy/other-policy-areas.html
6. Other Transaction for Prototype or Production. A legal instrument, consistent with 10
U.S.C. 4022, which provides DoD the flexibility necessary to adopt and incorporate 
business practices that reflect commercial industry standards and best practices into its 
award instruments. OTs for prototypes or production are not FAR-based procurement 
contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or OTs for Research. OTs for prototypes or 
production have specific applications and conditions for use (see Appendix C of the 
Other Transactions Guide linked below). The effort covered under an OT cannot be 
duplicative of effort being conducted under an existing DoD program. Follow-on 
production contracts and/or an OT may be awarded to a Prototype Other Transaction 
Awardee, if applicable. Please refer to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment Other Transaction Guide version 1.0 dated November 2018 
for additional information. This document, along with other OTA resources, may be 
accessed at the following link: https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/policy/otherpolicy-areas.html
7. Grants and cooperative agreements for institutions of higher education, nonprofit 
organizations, foreign organizations, and foreign public entities are primarily governed 
by the following:
a. Federal statutes
b. Federal regulations
c. 2 CFR Part 200
d. 2 CFR Part 1104
e. 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26, and 28
f. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions
g. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions
8. Grants and cooperative agreements for for-profit and nonprofit organizations exempted 
from Subpart E—Cost Principles of 2 CFR Part 200, are primarily governed by the 
following:
a. Federal statutes
14
b. Federal regulations
c. 32 CFR Part 34 – Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with 
For-Profit Organizations
d. 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26, and 28
e. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions
f. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions
9. OTs for Research are primarily governed by the following:
a. Federal statutes
b. Federal regulations
c. 32 CFR Part 37 – Technology Investment Agreements
d. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions
e. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions
f. Office of Secretary of Defense implementation guidance titled Other Transactions 
(OT) Guide for Research Projects (November 2018, Version 1)
10. OTsfor Prototypes or Production are primarily governed by the following:
a. Federal statutes
b. Office of Secretary of Defense implementation guidance titled Other Transactions 
(OT) Guide for Prototype Projects (November 2018, Version 1)
11. The following websites may be accessed to obtain an electronic copy of the governing 
regulations and terms and conditions:
a. FAR, DFARS, and AFARS: https://www.acquisition.gov
b. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR): http://www.ecfr.gov
c. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions: 
https://www.onr.navy.mil/en/work-with-us/manage-your-award/manage-grantaward/grants-terms-conditions
d. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions: 
https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/#terms-and-conditions
(End of Section)
15
C. Eligibility Information
1. Eligible Applicants
Unless noted in Section II.A.3 or as dictated by the award instrument type, eligible applicants 
under this BAA include institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, state and 
local governments, foreign organizations, foreign public entities, and for-profit organizations 
(i.e. large and small businesses). For ARO Targeted Opportunities, please see the specific 
eligibility requirements in the II.A.3 ARO Targeted Opportunities section above. For specific 
Other Transactions for Prototypes eligibility requirements, please see the “Other Transaction
for Prototype or Production” section within the II.B. Federal Award Information section.
2. Cost Sharing or Matching
Generally, there is no requirement for cost sharing, matching, or cost participation to be 
eligible for award under this BAA. Cost sharing and matching is not an evaluation factor 
used under this BAA. Exceptions may exist if the applicant is proposing the use of an OT for 
research or prototype as an award instrument. Cost-sharing requirements may be found at 32 
CFR Part 37 and in the DoD Other Transaction Guide for Prototype Projects 
(https://www.dau.edu/pdfviewer/Source/Guidebooks/Other-Transactions-(OT)-Guide.pdf).
3. Other
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) are subject to applicable 
direct competition limitations and cannot propose to this solicitation in any capacity unless they 
meet the following conditions. (1) FFRDCs must clearly demonstrate that the proposed work is 
not otherwise available from the private sector. (2) FFRDCs must provide a letter, on official 
letterhead from their sponsoring organization, that (a) cites the specific authority establishing 
their eligibility to propose to Government solicitations and compete with industry, and (b) 
certifies the FFRDC’s compliance with the associated FFRDC sponsor agreement’s terms and 
conditions. These conditions are a requirement for FFRDCs proposing to be awardees or 
subawardees.
University Affiliated Research Centers (UARCs) are eligible to submit proposals under this 
BAA if their proposal contains a letter, on official letterhead, from their primary sponsor 
concurring with the UARC’s proposal submission.
(End of Section)
16
D. Application and Submission Information
1. Address to View Broad Agency Announcement
This BAA may be accessed via the following websites:
a. Grants.gov (www.grants.gov)
b. Contract Opportunities (sam.gov)
c. ARL website https://www.arl.army.mil/collaborate-with-us/opportunity/arl-baa/
Amendments to this BAA, if any, will be posted to these websites when they occur. 
Supplemental information on topics, POCs, research areas, specific proposal rules and 
requirements, and other relevant info may be disseminated through Special Notices posted 
to the sam.gov Contract Opportunities website. Interested parties are encouraged to 
periodically check these websites for updates and amendments.
Digital copies of submission forms can be downloaded from 
https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/. Paper copies of submission forms are 
available upon request from the point of contact identified for a given topic.
The following information is for those wishing to respond to this BAA:
2. Content and Form of Application Submission
a. The Application Process Overview
Applicants are strongly encouraged to follow the below application process:
• Conduct a preliminary inquiry with an ARL TPOC
• Submit a Whitepaper to an ARL TPOC for review
• Submit a Full Proposal
All proposals for Assistance Instruments (Grants, Cooperative Agreements, and Technology 
Investment Agreements) must be submitted electronically through Grants.gov using the 
Workspace system. Proposals for Procurement Contracts, OTs for Research that are not 
Technology Investment Agreements, and OTsfor Prototypes or Production may be submitted via 
either Grants.gov or email to usarmy.rtp.devcom-arl.mbx.baa@army.mil. See II.D Application 
and Submission Information section of this BAA for information on the proposal submission 
process.
b. Preliminary Inquiries*
Interested applicants are strongly encouraged to make a preliminary inquiry by first contacting 
the ARL TPOC to discuss your ideas and the interests of ARL. ARL receives several hundred 
research proposals annually and is able to provide support for only a limited number of the
17
proposals received. ARL realizes the preparation of a research proposal often represents a 
substantial investment of time and effort by the applicant. Therefore, in an attempt to minimize 
this burden, ARL TPOCs are available to discuss the general need for the type of research 
effort contemplated and availability of funding before an interested applicant expends
extensive effort in preparing a whitepaper or full proposal. The TPOC names, telephone 
numbers, and email addresses are listed with each research Topic at the ARL BAA topics 
website, https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/, and they should be contacted, as 
appropriate, prior to the submission of whitepapers or proposals.
*NOTE: The Government will not be obligated by any discussion that arises out of 
preliminary inquiries.
c. Whitepaper Preparation and Submission
i. PURPOSE OF WHITEPAPERS:
Prospective proposers are strongly encouraged to submit whitepapers prior to the submission of 
a complete, more detailed proposal. The purpose of whitepapers is to minimize the labor and 
cost associated with the production of detailed proposals that have very little chance of being 
selected for funding. Whitepapers are not full proposals and are meant to provide the ARL 
TPOC with enough information to determine if there is interest on the part of ARL to receive a 
full proposal.
ii. WHITEPAPER CONTENT:
Whitepapers do not have a prescribed format but are not expected to exceed five (5) total pages 
and are encouraged to be submitted as a single portable document format (PDF) document. The 
whitepaper should include at a minimum the title of the whitepaper, name of the individual and 
organization submitting the whitepaper, the research topic name, topic identification (ID) 
number, and the TPOC name against which the whitepaper is submitted. Whitepapers should 
focus on describing objective and approach of the proposed research, including how it is 
innovative, and how it could substantially increase the scientific state of the art. Whitepapers 
should contain a brief cost estimate to understand a rough order of magnitude of the proposal 
cost, and any biographical information to highlight applicant’s qualifications and experience.
Any proprietary data must be clearly marked. The applicant must also identify any 
technical data or computer software contained in the whitepaper that is to be managed by 
the Government with restrictions, limited rights in technical data and restricted rights in 
computer software. In the absence of such identification, the Government will conclude 
there are no limitations or restrictions on technical data or computer software included in 
the whitepaper. Records or data bearing a restrictive legend may be included in the 
whitepaper. It is the intent of the Army to treat all whitepapers as procurement sensitive 
and to disclose their contents to Government employees or designated support contractors 
only for the purpose of evaluation.
18
iii. SUBMISSION OF WHITEPAPERS:
Whitepapers should be submitted via email to the TPOC identified in the topic proposed 
against. Whitepaperssubmitted via email are encouraged to be submitted as a single PDF file 
as an email attachment. If no TPOC is specifically listed, prospective applicants can submit 
information and questions using the ARL’s website Contact Us page at 
https://www.arl.army.mil/contact-us and selecting BAA Inquiry from the drop-down menu 
for advice and assistance before preparing and submitting a whitepaper. In the contact form 
subject line, include the phrase “BAA Whitepaper Submission,” and the research topic name 
and topic ID number listed at the website.
iv. REVIEW OF WHITEPAPERS:
ARL TPOCs will receive and consider all whitepapers submitted and will provide a 
response with either “encouraged to submit a proposal” or “not encouraged to submit a 
proposal”.
d. Full Proposal Preparation and Submission
Proposals must be submitted in order for the applicant to be considered for funding. 
Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit whitepapers (see instructions in II.D.2.c White 
Paper Preparation and Submission section above) and received a recommendation from an 
ARL TPOC to submit a proposal prior to submitting full proposals, however all proposals 
submitted under the terms and conditions cited in this BAA will be reviewed regardless of the 
recommendation received from the ARL TPOC, or lack of submission of a whitepaper.
i. COVER PAGE:
(1) A Cover Page is required. For contract proposals submitted by email, use ARO Form 51. 
For all Assistance instruments and contract proposals submitted via Grants.gov, use the SF 
424 (R&R) Form. Proposals will not be processed without either: (1) a signed Cover Page, 
ARO Form 51, or (2) a SF 424 (R&R) Form.
(2) Should the project be carried out at a branch campus or other component of the 
applicant, that branch campus or componentshould be identified in the space provided 
(Block 11 on the ARO Form 51 and Block 12 on the SF 424 (R&R) Form).
(3) The title of the proposed project should be brief, scientifically representative, intelligible 
to a scientifically-literate reader, and suitable for use in the public domain.
(4) The proposed duration for which support is requested should be consistent with the nature 
and complexity of the proposed activity. For research topics listed at the ARL BAA topics 
website, https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/, applicants shall discuss the preferred 
performance period with the TPOC.
19
(5) Specification of a desired starting date for the project is important and helpful; however, 
requested effective dates cannot be guaranteed.
(6) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 
[Section 31001(I)(1), Public Law 104-134] and implemented by 32 CFR 22.420(d), federal 
agencies shall obtain each awardees’ Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The TIN is being 
obtained for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent amounts that may arise out 
of an awardees’ relationship with the Government.
(7) Applicants must provide their organization's Unique Entity Identifier (UIE) (formerly 
Data Universal Number System (DUNS)). This number is a nine-digit number assigned 
by D&B Information Services. See Section II.D.3 of this BAA for requirements pertaining 
to the Unique Entity Identifier.
(8) Applicants must provide their assigned Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) 
Code. The CAGE Code is a 5-character code assigned and maintained by the Defense 
Logistics Service Center (DLSC) to identify a commercial plant or establishment.
20
ii. TABLE OF CONTENTS:
Use the following format for the Table of Contents. Forms are available at 
https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/
SECTION PAGE NUMBER
Table of Contents A-1
Statement of Disclosure Preference (Form 52 or 52A) B-1
Research and Related Other Project Information B-2
Project Abstract C-1
Project Description (Technical Proposal) D-1 - DBiographical Sketch E-1 - EBibliography F-1 - FCurrent and Pending Support G-1 - GFacilities, Equipment, and Other Resources H-1 - HProposal Budget I-1 - IContract Facilities Capital Cost of Money (DD Form 1861) J-1
Appendices KList Appendix Items:
This format applies to all proposals submitted via email and via Grants.gov. Applicants 
should show the location of each section of the proposal, as well as major subdivisions of the 
project description.
iii. STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE PREFERENCE (FORM 52 OR 52A): Complete and
sign ARO Form 52 (Industrial Contractors) or ARO Form 52A (Educational and Nonprofit 
Organizations).
21
iv. RESEARCH AND RELATED OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION: Must be completed
and signed by all applicants.
v. PROJECT ABSTRACT:
(1) The project abstract shall be completed on the form entitled “Publicly Releasable Project 
Abstract” found at the following website: https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/
(2) Unless otherwise instructed in this BAA, the project abstract shall include a concise 
statement of work and basic approaches to be used in the proposed effort. The abstractshould 
include a statement of scientific objectives, methods to be employed, and the significance of the 
proposed effort to the advancement of scientific knowledge.
(3) The abstract should be no longer than one (1) page (maximum 4,000 characters).
(4) The project abstract shall be marked by the applicant as publicly releasable. By 
submission of the project abstract, the applicant confirms that the abstract is releasable to the 
public. For a proposal that results in a grant award, the project abstract will be posted to a 
searchable website available to the general public to meet the requirements of Section 8123 
of the DoD Appropriations Act, 2015. The website address is 
https://dodgrantawards.dtic.mil/grants.
vi. PROJECT DESCRIPTION (TECHNICAL PROPOSAL): The technical portion of 
the proposal shall contain the following:
(1) A complete discussion stating the background and objectives of the proposed work, the 
scientific approaches to be considered, the relationship to competing or related research, and 
the level of effort to be employed. Include also the nature and extent of the anticipated results 
and how they will significantly advance the scientific state-of-the-art. Also, if known, include 
the manner in which the work will contribute to the accomplishment of the Army's mission. 
Ensure the proposal identifies any scientific uncertainties and describes specific approachesfor 
the resolution or mitigation of the uncertainties.
(2) A brief description of your organization.
(3) The names of other federal, state, local agencies, or other parties receiving the proposal 
and/or funding the proposed effort. If none, state so. Concurrent or later submission of the 
proposal to other organizations will not prejudice its review by ARL if ARL is kept informed of 
the situation.
(4) A statement regarding possible impact, if any, of the proposed effort on the environment, 
considering as a minimum its effect upon water, atmosphere, natural resources, human 
resources, and any other values.
(5) A statement regarding the use of Class I and Class II ozone- depleting substances. Ozonedepleting substances are any substance designated as Class I by the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), including but not limited to chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride,
22
and methyl chloroform, and any substance designated as Class II by EPA, including but not 
limited to hydrochlorofluorocarbons. See 40 CFR Part 82 for detailed information. If ClassI 
or II substances are to be utilized, a list shall be provided as part of the applicant's proposal. If 
none, state so.
(6) The type ofsupport, if any, requested by the applicant (e.g., facilities, equipment, 
and materials).
vii. BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH:
(1) This section shall contain the biographicalsketches for key personnel only.
(a) Primary PI: The Primary PI provides a single or initial point of communication between 
ARL and the awardee organization(s) about scientific matters. If not otherwise designated, 
the first PI listed will serve as the Primary PI. This individual can be changed with 
notification to ARL. ARL does not infer any additional scientific stature to this role among 
collaborating investigators.
(b) Co-PIs: The individual(s) a research organization designates as having an appropriate 
level of authority and responsibility for the proper conduct of the research and submission of 
required reports to ARL. When an organization designates more than one PI, it identifies 
them as individuals who share the authority and responsibility for leading and directing the 
research, intellectually and logistically. ARL does not infer any distinction among multiple 
PIs.
(2) The following information is required:
(a) Relevant experience and employment history including a description of any prior 
Federal employment within one year preceding the date of proposal submission.
(b) List of up to five publications most closely related to the proposed project and up to 
five other significant publications, including those being printed. Patents, copyrights, or 
software systems developed may be substituted for publications.
(c) List of persons, other than those cited in the publications list, who have collaborated 
on a project or a book, article, report or paper within the last four years. Include 
pending publications and submissions. Otherwise, state "None."
(d) Names of each investigator's own graduate or post-graduate advisors and advisees.
NOTE: The information provided in (c) and (d) is used to help identify potential 
conflicts or bias in the selection of reviewers.
(3) For the personnel categories of postdoctoral associates, other professionals, and students 
(research assistants), the proposal may include information on exceptional qualifications of 
these individuals that merit consideration in the evaluation of the proposal.
23
(4) The biographicalsketches are limited to three (3) pages per investigator and other 
individuals that merit consideration.
viii. BIBLIOGRAPHY: A bibliography of pertinent literature is required. Citations must 
be complete (including full name of author(s), title, and location in the literature).
ix. CURRENT AND PENDING SUPPORT:
This announcement requires all current and pending research support, as defined by Section 223 
of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2021 National Defense Authorization Act, must be disclosed at the time 
of proposal submission, for all covered individuals. See Section F.2.b.x for additional 
information on this requirement.
(1) All project support from whatever source must be listed. The list must include all projects 
requiring a portion of the PI's and other key personnel's time, even if they receive no salary 
support from the project(s).
(2) The information should include, as a minimum: (i) the project/proposal title and brief 
description, (ii) the name and location of the organization or agency presently funding the work 
or requested to fund such work, (iii) the award amount or annual dollar volume of the effort, (iv) 
the period of performance, and (v) a breakdown of the time required of the PI and/or other key 
personnel.
x. FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT, AND OTHER RESOURCES: The applicant should include 
in the proposal a listing of facilities, equipment, and other resources already available to 
perform the research proposed.
xi. PROPOSAL BUDGET (including DD Form 1861):
(1) Each proposal must contain a budget for each year of support requested and a cumulative 
budget for the full term of requested support. Each budget year and the cumulative budget for 
the full term must be documented on ARO Form 99. ARO Form 99 may be reproduced, but you 
may not make substitutions in prescribed budget categories nor alter or rearrange the cost 
categories as they appear on the form. The proposal may request funds under any of the 
categories listed so long as the item is considered necessary to perform the proposed work and is 
not precluded by applicable cost principles. In addition to the forms, the budget proposal should 
include budget justification for each year.
(2) A signed summary budget page must be included. The documentation pages should be titled 
"Budget Explanation Page" and numbered chronologically starting with the budget form. The 
need for each item should be explained clearly.
(3) All cost data must be current and complete. Costs proposed must conform to the 
following principles and procedures:
Institutions of Higher Education: 2 CFR Part 200 
Nonprofit Organizations*: 2 CFR Part 200
24
For-Profit/Commercial Organizations: FAR Part 31, DFARS Part 231, FAR Subsection 
15.403-5, and DFARS Subsection 215.403-5.
*For those nonprofit organizationsspecifically exempt from the provisions of Subpart E of 2 CFR 
Part 200 (see 2 CFR 200.401(c)), FAR Part 31 and DFARS Part 231 shall apply.
(4) Sample itemized budgets and the information they must include for a contract and for 
grants and cooperative agreements can be found at Section II.H of this BAA (Other 
Information). Before award of a cost-reimbursement type contract or assistance instrument it 
must be established that an approved accounting system and financial management system 
exist.
xii. APPENDICES: Some situations require that special information and supporting 
documents be included in the proposal before funding can be approved. Such information and 
documentation should be included by appendix to the proposal.
(1) To evaluate compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 
A Section 1681 Et. Seq.), the Department of Defense is collecting certain demographic 
and career information to be able to assess the success rates of women who are
proposed for key roles in applications in STEM disciplines. To enable this assessment, 
each application must include the following forms completed as indicated.
(A)Research and Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) form:
The Degree Type and Degree Year fields on the Research and Related Senior/Key Person 
Profile (Expanded) form will be used by DoD as the source for career information. In 
addition to the required fields on the form, applicants must complete these two fields for all 
individuals that are identified as having the project role of PD/PI or Co-PD/PI on the form. 
Additional senior/key persons can be added by selecting the “Next Person” button.
(B) Research and Related Personal Data form:
This form will be used by DoD as the source of demographic information, such as gender, 
race, ethnicity, and disability information for the Project Director/Principal Investigator and 
all other persons identified as Co-Project Director(s)/Co-Principal Investigator(s). Each 
application must include this form with the name fields of the Project Director/Principal 
Investigator or any Co-Project Director(s)/Co-Principal Investigator(s) completed; 
however, provision of the demographic information in the form is voluntary. If completing 
the form for multiple individuals, each Co-Project Director/Co-Principal Investigator can
be added by selecting the “Next Person” button. The demographic information, if 
provided, will be used for statistical purposed only and will not be made available to merit 
reviewers. Applicants who do not wish to provide some or all of the information should 
check or select the “Do not wish to provide” option.
(2) Data Management Plan: A data management plan is a document that describes which 
data generated through the course of the proposed research will be shared and preserved, 
how it will be done, or explains why data sharing or preservation is not possible or
25
scientifically appropriate, or why the costs of sharing or preservation are incommensurate 
with the value of doing so. See also: DoD Instruction 3200.12. In no more than 2 pages 
set forth as a separate PDF document, discuss the following:
• The types of data, software, and other materials to be produced.
• How the data will be acquired.
• Time and location of data acquisition, if scientifically pertinent.
• How the data will be processed.
• The file formats and the naming conventions that will be used.
• A description of the quality assurance and quality control measures during 
collection, analysis, and processing.
• A description of dataset origin when existing data resources are used.
• A description of the standards to be used for data and metadata format and 
content.
• Appropriate timeframe for preservation.
• The plan may consider the balance between the relative value of data preservation 
and other factors such as the associated cost and administrative burden. The plan 
will provide a justification for such decisions.
• A statement that the data cannot be made available to the public when there are 
national security or controlled unclassified information concerns (e.g., “This data 
cannot be cleared for public release in accordance with the requirements in DoD 
Directive 5230.09.”)
(3) With the application, the Applicant must provide the following “Privacy Act Statement” 
consent form for each Covered Individual in the proposal. This form must also signed by 
the Applicant as that Individual’s Sponsor.
26
Privacy Act Statement
Army Futures Command or Department of the Army
Application for Federal Assistance
Authority: Government Paperwork Elimination Act (Pub. L. 105-277, 44 U.S.C. 3504); Executive Order 12372, 
Intergovernmental review of Federal Programs (47 FR 30959); 42 U.S. Code § 6605 – Disclosure of funding 
sources in applications for Federal research and development awards; Public Law 117-167, CHIPS and Science 
Act; Public Law 116-92, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020; 5 U.S.C. 9101, Access to 
Criminal History for National Security and Other Purposes 5 CFR §1320.8, Agency collection of information 
Responsibility; 18 U.S.C. § 1001, False Statements, Concealment; E.O. 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 
9397 Related to Federal Use of social Security Numbers; NSPM-33, National Security Presidential Memorandum 
33 on National Security for United States Research and Development; DoD-D 5240.01, DoD Intelligence 
Activities; DoD-I 5200.02, Department of Defense Personnel Security Program; Army Regulation 381-10, U.S. 
Army Intelligence Activities
Purpose: The information collected may be used in processing, investigating, and maintaining records relevant to 
Federal Assistance awarded by the Department of the Army. Records in these systems will be used to ensure 
Army sponsored and/or awarded federal grants, assistance, contracts, and/or benefits are awarded to responsible 
parties, entities, and individuals. 
Routine Uses: To contractors, grantees, experts, consultants, students, and others performing or working on a 
contract, service, grant, cooperative agreement, or other assignment for the Federal Government when necessary 
to accomplish an agency function. 
To the appropriate Federal, State, local, territorial, tribal, foreign, or international law enforcement authority or 
other appropriate entity where a record, either alone or in conjunction with other information, indicates a 
violation or potential violation of law, whether criminal, civil, or regulatory in nature.
DoD Blanket Routine Use (http://dpcld.defense.gov/privacy)
Effect of not providing information: Providing information to the Department of the Army is voluntary. 
However, 42 U.S. Code § 6605, which imposes certain disclosure requirements in connection with Federal 
research and development awards, provides various enforcement mechanisms for non-compliance. One such 
mechanism, which the Department of the Army intends to pursue here, is rejection of such applications.
Proposal Title (or grants.gov number): ____________________________
Acknowledgment of consent:
Covered individual (Signature): ______________________________ Date: ___________
Covered individual (Name print): ______________________________
Institution’s Authorized Representative (Signature): _______________________ Date: ___________
Institution’s Authorized Representative (Name print): ______________________________
Institution Name: ________________________________
27
e. General Information
i. Classified Submissions: Proposals containing classified information are not accepted under 
this BAA. However, proposals may discuss the need to access or generate controlled 
unclassified information (CUI) or classified information for the proposed work. Where an award 
requires access to classified information, clause 52.204-2 will be included in the award, as well 
as a DD254, if issued. When an award requires access to CUI, DFARS Clause 252.204-7012 
will be included in the award, as well as additional ARL specific requirements as determined 
necessary. For questions regarding the potential for access to classified information and/or 
controlled unclassified information, please coordinate with the TPOC for that topic area prior to 
whitepaper or proposal submission.
ii. Post-Employment Conflict of Interest: There are certain post-employment restrictions on 
former federal employees, including special government employees (18 U.S.C. 207). If a 
prospective applicant believes a conflict of interest may exist, the situation should be discussed 
with the TPOC listed in the BAA for their topic of scientific research who will then coordinate 
with appropriate ARL legal counsel prior to the applicant expending time and effort in preparing 
a proposal.
iii. Statement of Disclosure Preference: In accordance with Section II.D.2.e.iii of this BAA, 
Form 52 or 52A shall be completed stating your preference for release of information contained 
in your proposal. Copies of these forms may be downloaded from the ARL web site at 
https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/.
NOTE: Submissions may be handled for administrative purposes by support contractors. 
These support contractors are prohibited from submitting proposals under this BAA and are 
bound by non-disclosure and/or conflict of interest requirements as deemed appropriate.
Applicants are cautioned, however, that portions of a submission may be subject to release 
under terms of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.
iv. Equipment (see instrument-specific regulations provided in Section II.B of this BAA): 
Normally, in accordance with 31 USC 6306, title to equipment or other tangible property 
purchased with Government funds vests with nonprofit institutions of higher education or with 
nonprofit organizations whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research if vesting will 
facilitate scientific research performed for the Government. For-profit organizations are expected 
to possess the necessary plant and equipment to conduct the proposed research. Deviations may 
be made on a case-by-case basis to allow for-profit organizations to purchase equipment but 
regulatory disposition instructions will be included in the award.
28
f. Submission of Proposals
Requestsfor waiver of electronic submission requirements may be submitted via email to: 
usarmy.rtp.devcom-arl.mbx.baa@army.mil or regular mail:
Army Research Office
ATTN: FCDD-RLR (Proposal Processing)
P.O. Box 12211
RTP, NC 27709-2211
All required forms for proposals may be downloaded from the ARL website at 
https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/.
All proposals for Assistance Instruments (Grants, Cooperative Agreements, and OTs) must be 
submitted electronically through Grants.gov using the Workspace system. Proposals for 
Contracts and OTs may be submitted via either Grants.gov or email. Proposals must be 
submitted through the applicant’s organizational office having responsibility for
Government business relations. All signatures must be that of an official authorized to 
commit the organization in business and financial affairs.
Proposal content requirements remain the same for both email and Grants.gov submission.
i. EMAIL SUBMISSION:
(1) Proposals requesting a Contract or OTs may be emailed directly to usarmy.rtp.devcomarl.mbx.baa@army.mil, do not email full proposals to the TPOC. Proposals for assistance 
agreements cannot be sent via email, see below for submission of Assistance agreement 
proposals through Grants.gov.
(2) The applicant must include with its proposal submission the representations required by Section 
II.F.2.a.i of this BAA. The representations must include applicant POC information and be signed 
by an authorized representative. Note: If the applicant’s online SAM Representations and 
Certifications include its response to the representations, a hard copy representation is not required 
with proposal submission.
(3) All forms requiring signature must be completed, printed, signed, and scanned into a PDF 
document. All documents must be combined into a single PDF formatted file to be attached 
to the email.
29
ii. GRANTS.GOV SUBMISSION:
(1) Proposals requesting Assistance agreements must be submitted via Grants.gov; proposals 
requesting a Contract or OT may be submitted either via Grants.gov or email (instructions 
above).
(2) Grants.gov Registration must be accomplished prior to application submission in Grants.gov.
Each organization that desiresto submit applications via Grants.Gov must complete a one-time 
registration. There are several one-time actions your organization must complete in order to 
submit applicationsthrough Grants.gov (e.g., obtain a Unique Entity Identifier, register with the 
SAM, register with the credential provider, register with Grants.gov and obtain approval for an 
authorized organization representative (AOR) to submit applications on behalf of the 
organization). To register please see http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/organizationregistration.html
Please note the registration process for an Organization or an Individual can take between 
three to five business days or as long as four weeks if all steps are not completed in a timely 
manner.
Questionsrelating to the registrationprocess,system requirements, how an application form 
works, or the submittal process should be directed to Grants.gov at 1-800-518-4726 or 
support@grants.gov.
NOTE: All web links referenced in this section are subject to change by Grants.gov and may not 
be updated here.
(3) Specific forms are required for submission of a proposal. The forms are contained in the 
Application Package available at http://www.grants.gov under the specific opportunity you are 
submitting under. When viewing an opportunity, select the "Package” tab and then select 
"View." A Grant Application Package and Application Instructions are available for this BAA 
through the Grants.gov Apply portal under CFDA Number 12.431/Funding Opportunity Number 
W911NF-23-S-0001. To apply, select “Apply” and then “Apply Now Using Workspace.”
*NOTE: Effective 31 December 2017, applicants must apply online at Grants.gov using the 
application Workspace. For access to complete instructions on how to apply for opportunities 
using Workspace refer to https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/workspaceoverview.html.
30
The following documents are mandatory: (1) Application for Federal Assistance (R&R) (SF 424 
(R&R)), and (4) Attachments form.
(4) The SF 424 (R&R) form is to be used as the cover page for all proposals submitted via 
Grants.gov. The SF 424 (R&R) must be fully completed. AOR usernames and passwords serve 
as “electronic signatures” when your organization submits applications through Grants.gov. By 
using the SF 424 (R&R), proposers are providing the certification required by 32 CFR Part 28 
regarding lobbying (see Section II.F.2.a.ii of this BAA). Block 11, “Descriptive Title of 
Applicant’s Project,” must reference the research topic area being addressed in the effort by 
identifying the specific paragraph from Section II.A of this BAA.
(5) The Attachments form must contain the documents outlined in Section II.D.2.e.ii entitled 
“Table of Contents”. All documents must be combined into separate and single PDF formatted 
files using the Table of Contents names. Include “W911NF-23-S-0001” in the title so the 
proposal will be distinguished from other BAA submissions and upload each document to the 
mandatory Attachments form.
(6) The applicant must include with its proposal submission the representations required by 
Section II.F.2.a.ii of this BAA. The representations must include applicant POC information and 
be signed by an authorized representative. Attach the representations document to an available 
field within the Attachments form. Note: If the applicant’s online SAM Representations and 
Certifications include its response to the representations, a hard copy representation is not 
required with proposal submission.
(7) The Grants.gov User Guide at: 
https://www.grants.gov/help/html/help/index.htm#t=GetStarted%2FGetStarted.htm will assist 
AORs in the application process. Remember that you must open and complete the Application 
for Federal Assistance (R&R) (SF 424 (R&R)) first, as this form will automatically populate data 
fields in other forms. If you encounter any problems, contact customer support at 1-800-518-
4726 or at support@grants.gov. If you forget your user name or password, follow the 
instructions provided in the Credential Provider tutorial. Tutorials may be printed by rightclicking on the tutorial and selecting “Print”.
(8) As it is possible for Grants.gov to reject the proposal during this process, it is strongly 
recommended that proposals be uploaded at least two days before any established deadline in the 
BAA so that they will not be received late and be ineligible for award consideration. It is also 
recommended to start uploading proposals at least two days before the deadline to plan ahead for 
any potential technical and/or input problems involving the applicant’s own equipment.
3. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management (SAM)
a. Each applicant (unless the applicant is an individual or Federal awarding agency that is 
exempt from those requirements under 2 CFR 25.110(b) or (c), or has an exemption approved 
by the Federal awarding agency under 2 CFR 25.110(d)) is required to:
31
i. Provide a valid unique entity identifier (formerly DUNS) in its application. Please 
verify the accuracy of your Unique Entity Identifier (formerly DUNS) at the Dun and 
Bradstreet (D&B) website http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform before registering with the 
System for Award Management System (SAM).
ii. Be registered in SAM at https://www.sam.gov prior to submitting its application; and
iii. Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during 
which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration 
by a Federal awarding agency.
b. The SAM obtains Legal Business Name, Doing Business Name (DBA), Physical Address, and 
Postal Code/ Zip+4 data fields from D&B. If corrections are required, registrants will not be 
able to enter/modify these fields in SAM; they will be pre-populated using D&B Unique Entity 
Identifier record data. When D&B confirms the correction has been made, the registrant must 
then re-visit sam.gov and click a “yes”' to D&B's changes. Only at this point will the D&B data 
be accepted into the SAM record. Allow a minimum of two (2) business days for D&B to send 
the modified data to SAM.
c. The Federal awarding agency may not make a Federal award to an applicant until the 
applicant has complied with all applicable unique entity identifier and SAM requirements. If an 
applicant has not fully complied with the requirements by the time the Federal awarding agency 
is ready to make a Federal award, the Federal awarding agency may determine that the applicant 
is not qualified to receive a Federal award and use that determination as a basis for making a 
Federal award to another applicant.
4. Submission Dates and Times
a. Proposals
Proposals will be considered until and including the closing date of this announcement (see cover 
page of this announcement for opening/closing dates). Proposals submitted after the closing date 
will not be considered by the Government under this announcement.
b. Proposal Receipt Notices
i. Grants.gov: After a proposal is submitted to Grants.gov, the AOR will receive a series of three 
emails from Grants.gov. The first two emails will be received within 24 to 48 hours after 
submission. The first email will confirm time of receipt of the proposal by the Grants.gov system 
and the second will indicate that the proposal has either been successfully validated by the system 
prior to transmission to the grantor agency or has been rejected due to errors. A third email will 
be received once the grantor agency has confirmed receipt of the proposal. Reference the 
Grants.gov User Guide at 
https://www.grants.gov/help/html/help/index.htm#t=GetStarted%2FGetStarted.htm for 
information on how to track your application package.
For the purposes of this BAA, an applicant’s proposal is not considered received by ARL until the 
AOR receives email #3.
32
ii. Email Submission: After a proposal is submitted to usarmy.rtp.devcomarl.mbx.baa@army.mil, the AOR will receive an email confirming time of receipt of the proposal 
by the receiving agency. For the purposes of this BAA, an applicant’s proposal is not considered 
received by the grantor agency until the AOR receives the email confirming receipt of the 
proposal.
5. Intergovernmental Review
Not Applicable
6. Funding Restrictions
Other than the restrictions referenced in Section II.A.3, there are no other funding restrictions 
associated with this BAA (e.g. direct costs, indirect costs, etc.).
7. Other Submission Requirements
a. Information to Be Requested from Successful Applicants: Applicants whose proposals are 
accepted for funding will be contacted before award to provide additional information 
required for award. The required information may include requests to clarify budget 
explanations, representations, certifications, and some technical aspects.
b. For Contracts Only: Performance Work Statements (PWS). Prior to award the Contracting 
Officer may request that the contractor submit a PWS for the effort to be performed, which 
will be incorporated into the contract at the time of award.
(End of Section)
33
E. Proposal Review Information
1. Evaluation Criteria
a. Proposals submitted against a BAA research topic and the ARO SI will be 
evaluated using the following criteria:
i. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of the proposal.
ii. The potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission.
iii. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team 
leader, or other key personnel who are critical to achievement of the 
proposed objectives.
b. ARO Proposals submitted for STIR will be evaluated using the following criteria:
i. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of the proposal.
ii. The potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission.
iii. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team 
leader, or other key personnel who are critical to achievement of the 
proposed objectives.
c. ARO Proposals submitted for ECP will be evaluated using the following criteria:
i. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of the proposal.
ii. The potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission.
iii. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team 
leader, or other key personnel who are critical to achievement of the 
proposed objectives.
iv. Long-term commitment by the institution of higher education to the early 
career investigator and the proposed research.
d. ARO Proposals submitted for RI will be evaluated using the following criteria:
i. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of the proposal.
ii. The potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission.
iii. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team 
leader, or other key personnel who are critical to achievement of the 
proposed objectives.
iv. The applicant’s capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques, or 
unique combinations of these, which are integral factors for achieving the 
proposed objectives.
e. Proposals submitted for Conference Grants will be evaluated using the following 
criteria:
i. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of proposed 
conference/symposia activities.
ii. The potential contributions of the conference/symposia activities to the 
Army mission.
iii. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team 
leader, or other key personnel who are critical to achievement of the 
conference/symposia.
34
2. Review and Selection Process
a. Upon receipt of a proposal, ARL staff will perform an initial review of its scientific merit and 
potential contribution to the Army mission, and also determine if funds are expected to be 
available for the effort. Proposals not considered having sufficient scientific merit or relevance to 
the Army's needs, or those in areas for which funds are not expected to be available, may not 
receive further review.
b. All proposals are treated as procurement sensitive and are disclosed only for the purpose of 
evaluation. Proposals having sufficient scientific merit or relevance will be subject to a peer 
review by highly qualified subject matter experts, both Government employees and nonGovernment employees. While the applicant may restrict the evaluation to Government 
employees, to do so may prevent review of the proposal by other qualified expertsin the field of 
research covered by the proposal. The applicant must indicate on the appropriate proposal form 
(Form 52 or 52A) any limitation to be placed on disclosure of information contained in the 
proposal.
c. Each proposal will be evaluated based on the evaluation criteria in Section II.E.1 of thisBAA 
rather than against other proposals for research in the same general area. Each evaluated 
proposal will receive a recommendation of “select” or “do not select” as supported by the 
evaluation.
d. Upon completion of an evaluation against the criteria in Section II.E.1, a proposal selected 
for possible award will be analyzed for the realism and reasonableness of costs and funds 
availability. Proposal costs must be determined reasonable and realistic before the Government 
can make an award.
e. Army Research Risk Assessment. Each proposal with a recommendation to “select” in 
accordance with II.E.2.c above, whose costs have been determined to be reasonable and 
realistic in accordance with II.E.2.d above, for which funds are available, and where a grant or 
cooperative agreement will be the award instrument type, will be subject to an Army Research 
Risk Assessment prior to award.
i. The Army Research Risk Assessment Program. The Army Research Risk Assessment 
Program (ARRP) is an adaptive risk management security program applied to Armyfunded research designed to help protect Army Science and Technology (S&T) by 
identifying possible vectors of undue foreign influence.
In order to identify and mitigate undue foreign influence as required by federal law and 
policy, the Army will perform a research risk assessment of each proposal selected 
based on the criteria above for consideration of a fundamental research grant or 
cooperative agreement award. ARRP risk assessments for these subject proposals will 
be developed for all proposed Senior/Key personnel, (also referred to as “Covered 
Individuals”). These risk assessments will be based on information disclosed in the 
Standard Form (SF) 424, “Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded),” any of its 
accompanying or referenced documents, publicly available information, and 
information contained in internal Army databases. Nationality or citizenship is not a 
factor in the risk assessment.
35
ARRP has a risk matrix which identifies risk factors and resulting risk ratings. The 
matrix generally looks at four factors, or risk areas: participation in foreign talent 
programs; denied entity list affiliation or association (see 
https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/the-denied-persons-list and 
https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-guidance/lists-of-parties-of-concern/entitylist); funding sources to include conflict of interest or conflict of commitment, or 
funding from a strategic competitor; and foreign influence showing a pattern or history 
of affiliation, association, or collaboration with a foreign institution, person or entity 
from a U.S. strategic competitor. The matrix is set forth below:
Rating
Identified Specific Actions of the Senior/Key Personnel
Foreign Talent 
Program
Denied Entities Funding Foreign 
Institutions
HIGH
Indicators of 
active (ongoing) 
participation or 
sponsorship in a 
strategic 
competitor 
Foreign Talent 
Program
Indicators of an 
active (ongoing) 
affiliation or past 
affiliation or 
present 
association with 
an entity on the 
U.S. Gov’t 
denied entity or 
person list or EO 
13959 or 
subsequent 
similar issuances
Indicators of active 
(ongoing) conflict of 
interest, conflict of 
commitment, or 
pattern of direct 
funding from a 
strategic competitor 
or country with 
history of targeting 
U.S. research or 
technology
Indicators of active 
(ongoing) direct 
affiliation, 
association or 
collaboration with 
a foreign 
institution, person, 
or entity from a 
strategic 
competitor
MODERATE
Indicators of past 
participation in a 
Foreign Talent 
Program with a 
U.S. strategic 
competitor, or 
country with a 
history of 
targeting U.S. 
research or 
technology
Indicators of past 
association with 
an entity 
identified in the 
U.S. Gov’t 
denied entity or 
person list or EO 
13959 or 
subsequent 
similar issuances
Indicators of any 
history or 
nonconsecutive 
pattern of, conflict of 
interest, conflict of 
commitment, or 
funding from a 
strategic competitor 
or country with 
history of targeting 
U.S. research or 
technology
Indicators of a 
history or pattern 
of association or 
collaboration with 
foreign institution, 
person, or entity 
from a strategic 
competitor or 
country with 
history of targeting 
U.S. research or 
technology
LOW
No participation 
in a Foreign 
Talent Program
No indicators of 
past or current 
association or 
affiliation with 
an entity on the 
U.S. Gov’t 
denied entity or 
person list or EO 
13959 or 
subsequent 
similar issuances
No indicators of past 
funding from a 
strategic competitor 
or country with 
history of targeting 
U.S. research or 
technology
No indicators of an 
association or 
collaboration with 
a foreign 
institution, person, 
or entity from a 
strategic 
competitor or 
country with 
history of targeting 
U.S. research or 
technology
36
- Affiliation is academic, professional, or institutional appointments or positions 
with a foreign government-connected entity, whether full-time, part-time, or 
voluntary (including adjunct, visiting, honorary, or lectures/visits) where direct 
monetary or non-monetary reward is involved.
- Association is academic, professional, or institutional appointments or positions 
with a foreign government-connected entity, whether full-time, part-time, or 
voluntary (including adjunct, visiting, honorary, or lectures/visits) where no 
direct monetary or non-monetary reward is involved. 
- Collaboration is academic, professional, or institutional agreement to jointly 
work together with a foreign government- connected entity, whether full-time, 
part-time, or voluntarily, in an official or unofficial capacity. Co-authorship in 
research endeavors is an example of collaboration.
- Strategic competitors are those adversaries identified in the current year 
Annual Threat Assessment report from Director of National Intelligence. The 
2021 assessment was published on April 9, 2021 and can be found at 
https://www.dno.gov/.
- Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment are defined in NSPM-33 and 
in the CONOP as well as the ARRP Policy memorandum.
- Senior/Key Personnel are those who (a) contribute in a substantive, meaningful 
way to the scientific development or execution of a research and development 
project proposed to be carried out with a research and development award from 
a Federal research agency; and (b) are designated as a covered individual by the 
Federal research agency concerned.
ARRP risk ratings range from LOW to HIGH depending on the amount, type, and 
timing of foreign associations or affiliations that could constitute a foreign-influenced 
“Conflict of Interest” or “Conflict of Commitment,” as defined by National Security 
Presidential Memorandum 33 (NSPM-33).
Once the research risk assessments are performed, the Army risk acceptance authority 
has several courses of action available for consideration. These courses of action are as 
follows:
Course of Action 1 - The Army risk acceptance authority may accept the risk rating that 
results from the risk assessment process and proceed with the award. This typically 
happens with proposals with risk ratings of “LOW” but could also happen with the 
other risk ratings. In Course of Action 1, the applicant will not be required to do 
anything related to the risk assessment process or the assigned risk rating. 
Course of Action 2 - The Army risk acceptance authority may accept the risk rating 
with some research protection requirements added to the grant or cooperative agreement 
award. This typically happens with proposals with risk ratings of “MODERATE” but 
37
could also happen with the other risk ratings. Also, typically, these added research 
protection requirements could include, but be limited to the following in the grant or 
cooperative agreement award:
o The University's Security Office shall provide the Principal Investigator and key 
personnel related to this award training on foreign talent recruitment programs 
and threat awareness and reporting requirements.
o The University shall disclose to the Army Research Laboratory Security Office 
and Grants Officer all international travel, i.e., all international travel completed 
as part of any university business, by the Principal Investigator and key personnel 
related to this award instrument prior to travel.
o The University shall report to the Army Research Laboratory Security Office and 
Grants Officer all inquiries by foreign operatives or suspected foreign operatives 
into research associated with the award.
o The University is encouraged to utilize students without potential conflicts of 
interest or conflicts of commitment as identified in U.S. National Security 
Presidential Memorandum (NSPM-33).
Under Course of Action 2, the applicant will be asked to sign the grant or cooperative 
agreement prior to award, confirming agreement to these added requirements. Should 
the applicant not agree to these added research protection requirements, the Army risk 
assessment authority may decide not to award.
Course of Action 3 - The Army risk acceptance authority is not willing to accept the 
risk assigned as a result of the assessment process. In this case, the applicant will be 
provided an opportunity to provide a risk mitigation plan. This typically happens with 
proposals with risk ratings of “HIGH” but could also happen with the other risk ratings. 
In Course of Action 3, the applicant will be informed of the risk rating assigned during 
the risk assessment process as well as the block(s) on the matrix where the review 
resulted in some type of finding that contributed to the assigned risk rating. Should the 
applicant choose to not submit a risk mitigation plan, the Army risk assessment 
authority may decide not to award. Should the applicant choose to submit a risk 
mitigation plan, the Army will review such plan. As a result of this review, the Army 
risk acceptance authority may then be willing to accept the risk assigned with the 
mitigation plan and proceed with the award or the Army risk acceptance authority may 
not be willing to accept the risk and may decide not to award. Further, should the risk 
mitigation plan include proposal revisions that affect those aspects of the proposal 
included in the review or selection process under SECTION II.E.2.c, the original 
proposal evaluation will be reviewed and revised as appropriate based on the proposal 
revisions.
ii. Actions Required by Applicants.
(1) By submission of this application and authorized signature on the SF 424 
(R&R) Form, the Applicant agrees to comply with the following 
requirements:
38
• To certify that each covered individual who is listed on the application 
has been made aware: (1) of all relevant disclosure requirements, 
including the requirements of 42 U.S.C. § 6605; and (2) that false 
representations may be subject to prosecution and liability pursuant to, 
but not limited to, 18 U.S.C. §§287, 1001, 1031 and 31 U.S.C. §§ 3729-
3733 and 3802. See National Science and Technology Council 
Guidance for Implementing National Security Presidential 
Memorandum 33 (NSPM-33) on National Security Strategy for United 
States Government-Supported Research and Development (January 
2022), at p. 7 (available at https://www.whitehouse.gov/wpcontent/uploads/2022/01/010422-NSPM-33-ImplementationGuidance.pdf).
• To establish and maintain an internal process or procedure to address 
foreign talent programs, conflicts of commitment, conflicts of interest, 
and research integrity.
• To exercise due diligence to identify Foreign Components or 
participation by Senior/Key Personnel in Foreign Government Talent 
Recruitment Programs and agree to share such information with the 
Government upon request.
(2) With the application, the Applicant must provide a completed “Privacy Act 
Statement” consent form for each Covered Individual that is also signed by 
the Applicant as that Individual’s Sponsor. The “Privacy Act Statement” 
form is included at SECTION II.D.2.d.xii (3) of this BAA.
(3) During the award period of performance:
• If, at any time, during performance of this award, the Recipient learns 
that its Senior/Key Research Personnel (including any subawardee 
personnel who receive this designation) are or are believed to be 
participants in a Foreign Government Talent Program or have Foreign 
Components with a strategic competitor or country with a history of 
targeting U.S. technology for unauthorized transfer, the recipient will 
notify the Government or Grants Officer within 5 business days of 
awareness.
• This disclosure must include specific information as to the personnel 
involved and the nature of the situation and relationship. The 
Government will review this information and conduct any necessary 
fact-finding or discussion with the Recipient. The Government’s 
determination on disclosure may include acceptance, mitigation, or 
termination of the award.
• Failure of the Recipient to reasonably exercise due diligence to discover 
or ensure that neither it nor any of its Senior/Key Research Personnel 
involved in the subject award are participating in a Foreign Government 
Talent Program or have a Foreign Component with a strategic 
39
competitor or country with a history of targeting U.S. technology for 
unauthorized transfer may result in the Government exercising remedies 
in accordance with federal law and regulation.
• The provisions concerning this disclosure will be included in each 
award.
• The Recipient will be required to flow down this provision to all sub 
awardees who have personnel designated as Senior/Key Research 
Personnel as a result of their involvement in the performance of the 
research.
iii.Actions Required by Covered Individuals.
Federal law requires that all current and pending research support, as defined by 42 U.S.C. §6605, 
must be disclosed at the time of proposal submission, for all covered individuals. The Government 
may require an updated disclosure during the performance of any research project selected for 
funding. The Government will require an updated disclosure whenever covered individuals are 
added or identified as performing under the funded project. See definition of “Covered Individuals” 
below. 
Covered Individuals are also required to sign the “Privacy Act Statement” and provide such signed 
statement to the applicant for submission with the proposal. 
Any decision to accept a proposal for funding under this announcement will include full reliance on 
the individual’s statements. Failure to report fully and completely all sources of project support and 
outside positions and affiliations may be considered a material statement within the meaning of the 
False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729, and constitute a violation of Federal law. 
iv.Privacy Act Compliance. All information collected and developed for the purpose of 
conducting ARRP risk assessments will be maintained in accordance with the following 
authorities:
• Office of Personnel Management (OPM) System of Records Notice (SORN) GOVT-1. 
This SORN governs information collected from federal grantees for the purpose of 
conducting a national security investigation or carrying out other lawful statutory, 
administrative, or investigative purposes of the agency, to the extent the information is 
relevant and necessary to the requesting agency’s decision.
• Department of the Army (DA) SORN A0381-20b-DAMI (Feb. 10, 2009, 74 F.R. 
6596). This SORN applies to information contained in systems used by the Department 
of the Army to develop ARRP risk assessments.
• 32 C.F.R. Appendix A to Part 310, Paragraph N: DoD Blanket Routine Uses. Pursuant 
to this provision, a record from a system of records maintained by a Component may 
be disclosed as a routine use outside the DoD or the U.S. Government for the purpose 
of counterintelligence activities authorized by U.S. law or Executive order or for the 
purpose of enforcing laws that protect the national security of the United States.
40
v.Definitions
• Covered Individual. An individual who contributes in a substantive, meaningful way 
to the scientific development or execution of a research and development project 
proposed to be carried out with a research and development award from a Federal 
research agency; and is designated as a covered individual by the Federal research 
agency concerned. See 42 U.S.C. § 6605, Definitions. (For purposes of this BAA, 
“covered individuals” are all Senior/Key Personnel.)
• Senior/Key Research Personnel. This term includes the Principal Investigator (PI) and 
other individuals who contribute to the scientific development or execution of a project 
in a substantive, measurable way, whether or not they receive salaries or compensation 
under the award. These include individuals whose absence from the project would be 
expected to impact the approved scope of the project. (For purposes of this BAA, 
“Senior/Key Personnel” are all considered “covered individuals.”
• Foreign Associations and Affiliations. Association is defined as collaboration, 
coordination or interrelation, professionally or personally, with a foreign governmentconnected entity where no direct monetary or non-monetary reward is involved. 
Affiliation is defined as collaboration, coordination, or interrelation, professionally or 
personally, with a foreign government-connected entity where direct monetary or nonmonetary reward is involved.
• Foreign Government Talent Recruitment Programs. In general, these programs include 
any foreign-state-sponsored attempt to acquire U.S. scientific-funded research or 
technology through foreign government-run or funded recruitment programs that target 
scientists, engineers, academics, researchers, and entrepreneurs of all nationalities 
working and educated in the U.S. Distinguishing features of a Foreign Government 
Talent Recruitment Program may include:
• Compensation, either monetary or in-kind, provided by the foreign state to the 
targeted individual in exchange for the individual transferring their knowledge 
and expertise to the foreign country. In-kind compensation may include 
honorific titles, career advancement opportunities, promised future 
compensation or other types of remuneration or compensation.
• Recruitment, in this context, refers to the foreign-state-sponsor’s active 
engagement in attracting the targeted individual to join the foreign-sponsored 
program and transfer their knowledge and expertise to the foreign state. The 
targeted individual may be employed and located in the U.S. or in the foreign 
state.
• Contracts for participation in some programs that create conflicts of 
commitment and/or conflicts of interest for researchers. These contracts include, 
but are not limited to, requirements to attribute awards, patents, and projects to 
the foreign institution, even if conducted under U.S. funding, to recruit or train 
other talent recruitment plan members, circumventing merit-based processes, 
and to replicate or transfer U.S.-funded work in another country.
41
• Many, but not all, of these programs aim to incentivize the targeted individual to 
physically relocate to the foreign state. Of particular concern are those programs 
that allow for continued employment at U.S. research facilities or receipt of U.S. 
Government research funding while concurrently receiving compensation from 
the foreign state.
• Foreign Government Talent Recruitment Programs do not include research 
agreements between the University and a foreign entity, unless that agreement 
includes provisions that create situations of concern addressed elsewhere in this 
section; agreements for the provision of goods or services by commercial 
vendors; or invitations to attend or present at conferences.
• Conflict of Interest. A situation in which an individual, or the individual’s spouse or 
dependent children, has a financial interest or financial relationship that could directly 
and significantly affect the design, conduct, reporting, or funding of research.
• Conflict of Commitment. A situation in which an individual accepts or incurs 
conflicting obligations between or among multiple employers or other entities. 
Common conflicts of commitment involve conflicting commitments of time and effort, 
including obligations to dedicate time in excess of institutional or funding agency 
policies or commitments. Other types of conflicting obligations, including obligations 
to improperly share information with, or withhold information from, an employer or 
funding agency, can also threaten research security and integrity and are an element of 
a broader concept of conflicts of commitment.
• Foreign Component. Performance of any significant scientific element or segment of a 
program or project outside of the U.S., either by the University or by a researcher 
employed by a foreign organization, whether or not U.S. government funds are 
expended. Activities that would meet this definition include, but are not limited to: 
involvement of human subjects or animals; extensive foreign travel by University 
research program or project staff for the purpose of data collection, surveying, 
sampling, and similar activities; collaborations with investigators at a foreign site 
anticipated to result in co-authorship; use of facilities or instrumentation at a foreign 
site; receipt of financial support or resources from a foreign entity; or any activity of 
the University that may have an impact on U.S. foreign policy through involvement in 
the affairs or environment of a foreign country.
• Strategic Competitor. A nation, or nation-state, that engages in diplomatic, economic 
or technological rivalry with the United States where the fundamental strategic 
interests of the U.S are under threat.
3. Recipient Qualification
a. Grant, Cooperative Agreement, and OT Proposals:
i. The Grants Officer is responsible for determining a recipient’s qualification prior to award. 
42
In general, a Grants Officer will award grants or cooperative agreements only to qualified 
recipients that meet the standards at 32 CFR 22.415. To be qualified, a potential recipient 
must:
- Have the management capability and adequate financial and technical resources, 
given those that would be made available through the grant or cooperative agreement, to 
execute the program of activities envisioned under the grant or cooperative agreement;
- Have a satisfactory record of executing such programs or activities (if a prior 
recipient of an award);
- Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics; and
- Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement 
under applicable laws and regulations.
43
Applicants are requested to provide information with proposal submissions to assist the Grants 
Officer’s evaluation of recipient qualification.
ii. In accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in parts 180 and 
200 of Title 2, CFR, it is DoD policy that DoD Components must report and use integrity and 
performance information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information 
System (FAPIIS), or any successor system designated by OMB, concerning grants, cooperative 
agreements, and OTs for research as follows:
If the total Federal share will be greater than the simplified acquisition threshold on any Federal 
award under a notice of funding opportunity (see 2 CFR 200.88 Simplified Acquisition 
Threshold):
- The Federal awarding agency, prior to making a Federal award with a total amount of 
Federal share greater than the simplified acquisition threshold, will review and consider 
any information about the applicant that is in the designated integrity and performance 
system accessible through SAM (currently FAPIIS) (see 41 U.S.C. 2313);
- An applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and 
performance systems accessible through SAM and comment on any information about 
itself that a Federal awarding agency previously entered and is currently in the designated 
integrity and performance system accessible through SAM;
- The Federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in 
addition to the other information in the designated integrity and performance system, in 
making a judgment about the applicant's integrity, business ethics, and record of 
performance under Federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by 
applicants as described in 2 CFR 200.205 Federal awarding agency review of risk posed 
by applicants.
b. Contract Proposals:
i. Contracts shall be awarded to responsible prospective contractors only. See FAR 9.104-1 
for a listing of the general standards against which an applicant will be assessed to determine 
responsibility.
Applicants are requested to provide information with proposal submission to assist the 
Contracting Officer’s evaluation of responsibility.
ii. FAPIIS will be checked prior to making an award. The web address is: https://cpars.gov. 
The applicant representing the entity may comment in this system on any information about 
the entity that a federal government official entered. The information in FAPIIS will be used 
in making a judgment about the entity’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance 
under Federal awards that may affect the official’s determination that the applicant is qualified 
to receive an award.
(End of Section)
44
F. Award Administration Information
1. Award Notices
Applicants whose proposals are recommended for award may be contacted by a Contract/Grant 
Specialist to discuss additional information required for award. This may include 
representations and certifications, revised budgets or budget explanations, certificate of current 
cost or pricing data, subcontracting plan for small businesses, and/or other information as 
applicable to the proposed award. The anticipated start date will be determined at that time.
The notification email is not an authorization to commit or expend funds. The Government is 
not obligated to provide any funding until a Government Contracting/ Grants Officer signs the 
award document.
The award document signed by the Government Contracting/Grants Officer is the official and 
authorizing award instrument. The authorizing award instrument, signed by the Contracting/ 
Grants Officer, will be emailed to the PI and AOR.
2. Administrative and National Policy Requirements
a. Required Representations and Certifications:
i. Contract Proposals:
(1) Representations and certifications shall be completed by successful applicants prior to 
award. FAR Online Representations and Certifications are to be completed through SAM at 
https://www.sam.gov. As appropriate, DFARS and contract-specific certification packages will 
be provided to the contractor for completion prior to award.
(2) FAR 52.203-18, PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT 
REQUIRE CERTAIN CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS OR STATEMENTS—
REPRESENTATION (JAN 2017)
(a) Definition. As used in this provision--
“Internal confidentiality agreement or statement”, “subcontract”, and “subcontractor”, are 
defined in the clause at 52.203-19, Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal 
Confidentiality Agreements or Statements.
(b) In accordance with section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and 
Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor 
provisions in subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions), 
Government agencies are not permitted to use funds appropriated (or otherwise made 
available) for contracts with an entity that requires employees or subcontractors of such 
entity seeking to report waste, fraud, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from 
lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law
45
enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such 
information.
(c) The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this provision does not contravene requirements 
applicable to SF 312, (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414 
(Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form 
issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified 
information.
(d) Representation. By submission of its offer, the applicant represents that it will not 
require its employees or subcontractors to sign or comply with internal confidentiality 
agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or 
subcontractors from lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of 
a Government contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a 
Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of 
the Inspector General).
(3) FAR 52.204-26, COVERED TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OR SERVICESREPRESENTATION (OCT 2020)
a) Definitions. As used in this provision, "covered telecommunications equipment or 
services" and "reasonable inquiry" have the meaning provided in the clause 52.204-25, 
Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services 
or Equipment.
(b) Procedures. The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award 
Management (SAM) ( https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal 
awards for "covered telecommunications equipment or services".
(c)(1) Representation. The Offeror represents that it [ ] does, [ ] does not provide covered 
telecommunications equipment or services as a part of its offered products or services to the 
Government in the performance of any contract, subcontract, or other contractual instrument.
(2) After conducting a reasonable inquiry for purposes of this representation, the offeror 
represents that it [ ] does, [ ] does not use covered telecommunications equipment or services, 
or any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or 
services.
(4) FAR 52.209-11, REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING 
DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER FEDERAL LAW 
(FEB 2016)
(a) As required by sections 744 and 745 of Division E of the Consolidated and Further 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L 113-235), and similar provisions, if 
contained in subsequent appropriations acts, the Government will not enter into a 
contract with any corporation that--
46
(1) Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and 
administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid 
in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for 
collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax 
liability, unless an agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation 
and made a determination that suspension or debarment is not necessary to protect the 
interests of the Government; or
(2) Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the 
preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless an 
agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and made a 
determination that this action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government.
(b) The applicant Offeror that—
(1) It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been 
exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant 
to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability; 
and
(2) It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation 
under a Federal law within the preceding 24 months.
ii. Grant and Cooperative Agreement Proposals:
(1) Grant awards greater than $100,000 require a certification of compliance with a national 
policy mandate concerning lobbying. Statutes and Government-wide regulations require the 
certification to be submitted prior to award. When submitting your grant through Grants.gov, by 
completing blocks 18 and 19 of the SF 424 (R&R) Form, the grant applicant is providing the 
certification on lobbying required by 32 CFR Part 28; otherwise, a copy signed by the AOR 
must be provided. Below is the required certification:
CERTIFICATION AT APPENDIX A TO 32 CFR PART 28 REGARDING
LOBBYING: Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements the 
undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of 
the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or 
employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, 
or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any 
Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the 
entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, 
amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative 
agreement.
47
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid 
to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any 
agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee 
of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or 
cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit SF-LLL, 
"Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included 
in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, 
subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that 
all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when 
this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite 
for making or entering into this transaction imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Any person who 
fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than
$10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(2) In accordance with Section 743 of P.L. 113-235 , none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by that or any other Act may be made available for a grant or cooperative 
agreement with an entity that requires its employees or contractors seeking to report fraud, waste, 
or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise 
restricting those employees or contractors from lawfully reporting that waste, fraud, or abuse to a 
designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive the information.
PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT REQUIRED CERTAIN 
INTERNAL CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS – REPRESENTATION
Agreement with the representation below will be affirmed by checking the “I agree” 
box in block 17 of the SF424 (R&R) as part of the electronic proposal submitted via 
Grants.gov. The representation reads as follows:
By submission of its proposal or application, the applicant represents that it does not 
require any of its employees, contractors, or subrecipients seeking to report fraud,
waste, or abuse to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting those employees, contractors, 
subrecipients from lawfully reporting that waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated 
investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information.
*Note that: Section 743 states that it does not contravene requirements applicable to SF 
312, Form 4414, or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing 
the nondisclosure of classified information.
(3) Recipients are required to submit the following representation with the application package 
IAW the instructions at Section II.D.2.f.ii of this BAA:
48
REPRESENTATIONS UNDER DOD ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS:
APPROPRIATIONS PROVISIONS ON TAX DELINQUENCY AND FELONY 
CONVICTIONS
The applicant is [ ] is not [ ] a “Corporation” meaning any entity, including any 
institution of higher education, other nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity that has 
filed articles of incorporation.
If the applicant is a “Corporation” please complete the following representations:
(a) The applicant represents that it is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid 
Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative 
remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax 
liability.
(b) The applicant represents that it is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of 
a criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months.
NOTE: If an applicant responds in the affirmative to either of the above representations, 
the applicant is ineligible to receive an award unless the agency suspension and 
debarment official (SDO) has considered suspension or debarment and determined that 
further action is not required to protect the Government’s interests. The applicant 
therefore should provide information about its tax liability or conviction to the agency’s 
SDO as soon as it can do so, to facilitate completion of the required considerations 
before award decisions are made.
PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES USING CERTAIN 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT
Section 889 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 
2019 (Public Law 115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency from obligating or 
expending loan or grant funds to procure or obtain, extend, or renew a contract to 
procure or obtain, or enter into a contract (or extend or 105 renew a contract) to procure 
or obtain the equipment, services, or systems prohibited systems as identified in section 
889 of the NDAA for FY 2019. For more information on how this applies to all grant 
recipients and sub-recipients after August 13, 2020, please see DoD Research General 
Terms and Conditions (SEP 2021) NP Article IV. Other national policy requirements, 
paragraph 18.
b. Policy Requirements:
The following list provides notable national policy requirements that may be applicable to an 
award. NOTE: The following is not an all-inclusive list of policy requirements. For assistance
49
awards, refer to the DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions at 
https://www.onr.navy.mil/en/work-with-us/manage-your-award/manage-grant-award/grantsterms-conditions for additional national policy requirements that may apply. For contract 
awards, appropriate clauses will be added to award documents.
i. PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
(1) For Assistance Instruments:
(a) The recipient must protect the rights and welfare of individuals who participate as human 
subjects in research under this award and comply fully with the requirements at 32 CFR part 219, 
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3216.02, 10 U.S.C. 980, the National Policy 
Requirements Concerning Live Organisms Terms and Conditions (Section A.1., Human Subjects, 
at 81 Federal Register 78380, Appendix C to Part 1122), and when applicable, Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) policies and regulations.
(b) The recipient must not begin performance of research involving human subjects, also known 
as human subjects research (HSR), that is covered under 32 CFR part 219, or that meets 
exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), or expends funding on such effort, until you receive 
a formal notification of approval from the cognizant DoD Human Research Protection Official 
(HRPO). Approval to perform HSR under this award is received after the HRPO has performed
a review of the recipient’s documentation of planned HSR activities and has officially furnished a 
concurrence with the recipient’s determination as presented in the documentation.
(c) In order for the HRPO to accomplish this concurrence review, the recipient must provide 
sufficient documentation to enable his or her assessment as follows:
(i) If the HSR meets an exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), the documentation 
must include a citation of the exemption category under 32 CFR 219.101(b) and a 
rationale statement.
(ii) If the recipient’s activity is determined as “non-exempt research involving human 
subjects”, the documentation must include:
− Assurance of Compliance (a written assurance that an institution will comply 
with requirements of 32 CFR Part 219, as well as the terms of the assurance) 
appropriate for the scope of work or program plan; and
− Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, as well as all documentation 
reviewed by the IRB to make their determination.
(d) The HRPO retains final judgment on what activities constitute HSR, whether an exempt 
category applies, whether the risk determination is appropriate, and whether the planned HSR 
activities comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) The recipient must notify the Grants Officer/Agreements Officer immediately of any 
suspensions or terminations of the Assurance of Compliance.
50
(f) DoD staff, consultants, and advisory groups may independently review and inspect the 
recipient’s research and research procedures involving human subjects and, based on such 
findings, DoD may prohibit research that presents unacceptable hazards or otherwise fails to 
comply with DoD requirements.
(g) Definitions for terms used in this section are found in DoDI 3216.02.
(2) For Contracts: DFARS clause 252.235-7004 is applicable to this solicitation and will be 
included in any resultant contract award that supports research that includes or may include HSR.
ii. ANIMAL USE:
(1) Assistance Instruments:
(a) Prior to initiating any animal work under the award, the recipient must:
(i) Register the recipient’s research, development, test, and evaluation or training facility 
with the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR section 
2.30, unless otherwise exempt from this requirement by meeting the conditions in 7
U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR parts 1-4 for the duration of the activity.
(ii) Have the recipient’s proposed animal use approved in accordance with DoDI
3216.01, Use of Animals in DoD Programs by a DoD Component Headquarters Oversight 
Office.
(iii) Furnish evidence of such registration and approval to the grants officer.
(b) The recipient must make the animals on which the research is being conducted, and all 
premises, facilities, vehicles, equipment, and records that support animal care and use available 
during business hours and at other times mutually agreeable to the recipient, the United States 
Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 
(USDA/APHIS) representative, personnel representing the DoD component oversight offices, as 
well as the grants officer, to ascertain that the recipient is compliant with 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 
CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01.
(c) The recipient’s care and use of animals must conform with the pertinent laws of the United 
States, regulations of the Department of Agriculture, and regulations, policies, and procedures of 
the DoD (see 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01).
(d) The recipient must acquire animals in accordance with DoDI 3216.01.
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clauses shall be added to the award.
iii. BIOLOGICAL SAFETY PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS:
(1) Assistance Instruments and Contracts: Awards may be subject to biological safety
51
program requirementsIAW:
(a) Army Regulation (AR) 385-10, Chapter 20 
https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/ARN16777_ARN16343_AR385_10_
FINAL.pdf
(b) Department of Army (DA) Pamphlet (PAM) 385-69 on safety standards for microbiological 
and biomedical laboratories. This pamphlet requires the mandatory use of the latest edition of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) and National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical 
Laboratories (BMBL) https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/p385_69.pdf
(c) DoD Manual 6055.18-M, Enclosure 4, Section 13 https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=24365
iv. MILITARY RECRUITING:
(1) Assistance Instruments: This is to notify potential applicants that each grant or cooperative 
agreement awarded under this announcement to an institution of higher education must include 
the following term and condition:
(a) As a condition for receiving funds available to the DoD under this award, you agree that you 
are not an institution of higher education (as defined in 32 CFR part 216) that has a policy or 
practice that either prohibits, or in effect prevents:
(i) The Secretary of a Military Department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a 
unit of the Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC)—-in accordance with 10
U.S.C. 654 and other applicable Federal laws—-at that institution (or any sub-element of 
that institution);
(ii) Any student at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution) from enrolling 
in a unit of the Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education.
(iii) The Secretary of a Military Department or Secretary of Homeland Security from 
gaining access to campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on 
campuses, for purposes of military recruiting in a manner that is at least equal in quality 
and scope to the access to campuses and to students that is provided to any other 
employer; or
(iv) Access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to the names of 
students (who are 17 years of age or older and enrolled at that institution or any subelement of that institution); their addresses, telephone listings, dates and places of birth, 
levels of education, academic majors, and degrees received; and the most recent 
educational institutions in which they were enrolled.
(b) If you are determined, using the procedures in 32 CFR part 216, to be such an institution of 
higher education during the period of performance of this award, we:
52
(i) Will cease all payments to you of DoD funds under this award and all other DoD 
grants and cooperative agreements; and
(ii) May suspend or terminate those awards unilaterally for material failure to comply 
with the award terms and conditions.
v. SUBCONTRACTING:
(1) Assistance Instruments: N/A
(2) Contracts: Pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. § 637(d)), it is the 
policy of the Government to enable small business and small disadvantaged business (SDB) 
concerns to be considered fairly as subcontractors. All other than U.S. small businesses 
proposing contracts expected to exceed $750,000 and that have subcontracting possibilities are 
required to submit a subcontracting plan IAW FAR 19.702(a), and shall do so with their 
proposal.
Subcontracting plans are determined to be acceptable or unacceptable based on the criteria 
established at FAR 19.705-4, DFARS 219.705-4, and AFARS 5119.705-4. Goals are 
established on an individual contract basis and should result in realistic, challenging and 
attainable goals that, to the greatest extent possible, maximize small business participation in 
subcontracting for Small Business, SDB, Woman-Owned Small Business (WOSB), 
Economically-Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB), Service-Disabled 
Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB), Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB), and 
Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) Small Business consistent with 
applicants’ make-or-buy policy, the pool of and availability of qualified and capable small 
business subcontractors, their performance on subcontracts, and existing relationships with 
suppliers.
Subcontracting goals should result in efficient contract performance in terms of cost, schedule, 
and performance and should not result in increased costs to the Government or undue 
administrative burden to the prime contractor. More information on the Subcontracting program 
and the DoD Subcontracting goals may be found at:
https://business.defense.gov/About/Goals-and-Performance/
vi. EXPORT CONTROL LAWS
(1) Assistance Instruments: N/A
(2) Contracts: Applicants should be aware of current export control laws and are responsible for 
ensuring compliance with all export control laws, including International Traffic in Arms 
Regulation (ITAR) (22 CFR 120 et. Seq.) and the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR 
730) requirements, as applicable. In some cases, developmental items funded by the Department 
of Defense are now included on the United States Munition List (USML) and are therefore 
subject to ITAR jurisdiction. The USML is available online at http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/textidx?node=pt22.1.121. Additional information regarding the President's Export Control Reform 
Initiative can be found at http://export.gov/ecr/index.asp.
53
vii. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE:
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements 
in 32 CFR Part 26, which is the DoD implementation of 41 U.S.C. 701, “Drug-free workplace 
requirements for Federal contractors.”
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award.
viii. DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION:
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must comply with requirements regarding debarment 
and suspension in Subpart C of 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125. This 
includes requirements concerning the recipient’s principals under an award, as well as 
requirements concerning the recipient’s procurement transactions and subawards that are 
implemented in DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions.
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award.
ix. REPORTING SUBAWARDS AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION:
(1) Assistance Instruments: The recipient must report information about subawards and 
executive compensation as specified in the award term in Appendix A to 2 CFR Part 170, 
“Reporting subaward and executive compensation information,” modified as follows:
(a) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for 
reporting subaward information, the Web site “http://www.fsrs.gov” cited in paragraphs a.2.i. and
a.3 of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “http://www.fsrs.gov or successor OMBdesignated Web site for reporting subaward information”;
(b) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for 
reporting executive compensation information, the Web site “http://www.sam.gov” cited in 
paragraph b.2.i. of the award provision is replaced by the phrase “https://www.sam.gov or 
successor OMB-designated Web site for reporting information on total compensation”; and
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clause(s) shall be added to the award.
x. CONFLICT OF INTEREST/CONFLICT OF COMMITMENT REVIEW:
This announcement requires all current and pending research support, as defined by Section 223 
of the FY21 National Defense Authorization Act, must be disclosed at the time of proposal 
submission, for all covered individuals. Such disclosure will be updated annually during the 
performance of any research project selected for funding, and whenever covered individuals are 
added or identified as performing under the funded project. Covered Individuals are those who 
are listed as key personnel on proposals, including but not restricted to, the principal investigator 
or co-principal investigator.
54
Any decision to accept a proposal for funding under this announcement will include full reliance 
on the applicant's statements. Failure to report fully and completely all sources of project support 
and outside positions and affiliations may be considered a materials statement within the meaning 
of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729, and constitute a violation of Federal law.
ARL may conduct a pre-award conflict of interest/conflict of commitment review, as defined in 
the National Security Presidential Memorandum- 33, of any proposal selected for funding.
Applicants are advised that any significant conflict of interest/conflict of commitment identified 
may be a basis for the rejection of an otherwise awardable proposal.
3. Reporting
a. Additional reports including number and types will be specified in the award document but 
will include as a minimum monthly financial status reports. The reports shall be prepared and 
submitted in accordance with the procedures contained in the award document and mutually 
agreed upon before award. Reports and briefing material will also be required as appropriate to 
document progress in accomplishing program metrics. A final report that summarizes the 
project and tasks will be required at the conclusion of the performance period for the award.
b. Service Contract Reporting (SCR). For Contracts Only. See FAR 52.204-14, SAM Users 
Guide and DoD Guidebook for Service Contract Reporting in the System for Award 
Management at https://dodprocurementtoolbox.com/cms/sites/default/files/resources/2020-
10/SCR%20Guidebook%2021%20October%202020.pdf.
c. If the total Federal share exceeds $500,000 on any Federal award under a notice of funding 
opportunity, the post-award reporting requirements reflected in Appendix XII to 2 CFR 200 will 
be included in the award document. This requirement also applies to modifications of awards 
that: 1) increase the scope of the award, 2) are issued on or after January 1, 2016, and 3) increase 
the federal share of the award’s total value to an amount that exceeds $500,000.
(End of Section)
55
G. Agency Contacts
1. Questions of a technical or programmatic nature shall be directed to the TPOC for each 
research topic. The TPOCinformation may be found in the description of each research topic at 
the ARL BAA topics website, https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/.
2. Questions of a business or administrative nature are to be submitted through the ARL 
Contact us webpage: https://www.arl.army.mil/contact-us/ . Proprietary information should not 
be included in these contacts.
3. Comments or questions submitted should be concise and to the point, eliminating any 
unnecessary verbiage. In addition, the relevant part and paragraph of the announcement should 
be referenced.
4. Requests to withdraw a proposal shall be directed to 
usarmy.rtp.devcom-arl.mbx.baa@army.mil
(End of Section)
56
A. Other Information
Below are two separate outlines of the informational requirements for a sample cost proposal. 
Section H.1 is for a procurement contract and Section H.2 is for grants and cooperative 
agreements.
1. CONTRACT Proposals
Cost Proposal – {No Page Limit}
Cover sheet to include:
1 BAA number
2 Technical area
3 Lead organization submitting proposal
4 Type of business, selected among the following categories: “LARGE BUSINESS”, 
“SDB”, “OTHER SMALL BUSINESS”, “HBCU”, “MI”, “OTHER EDUCATIONAL”, 
OR “OTHER NONPROFIT”
5 Contractor’s reference number (if any)
6 Other team members (if applicable) and type of business for each
7 Proposal title
8 TPOC to include: salutation, last name, first name, street address, city, state, zip code, 
telephone, fax (if available), electronic mail (if available)
9 Administrative point of contact to include: salutation, last name, first name, street address, 
city, state, zip code, telephone, fax (if available), and electronic mail (if available)
10 Award instrument requested: cost-plus-fixed-fee (CPFF), cost contract (no fee), cost 
sharing contract (no fee), or other type of procurement contract (specify)
11 Place(s) and period(s) of performance
12 Total proposed cost separated by basic award and option(s) (if any)
13 Name, address, and telephone number of the proposer’s cognizant Defense Contract 
Management Agency (DCMA) administration office (if known)
14 Name, address, and telephone number of the proposer’s cognizant Defense Contract Audit 
Agency (DCAA) audit office (if known)
15 Date proposal was prepared
16 Unique Entity Identifier number
17 TIN number
18 CAGE code
19 Subcontractor information
20 Proposal validity period
21 Any Forward Pricing Rate Agreement, other such approved rate information, or such 
other documentation that may assist in expediting negotiations (if available)
57
a. Reasoning for Submitting a Strong Cost Proposal
The ultimate responsibility of the Contracting Officer is to ensure that all prices offered in a 
proposal are fair and reasonable before contract award. To establish the reasonableness of the 
offered prices, the Contracting Officer may ask the applicant to provide supporting 
documentation that assists in this determination. The applicant’s ability to be responsive to the 
Contracting Officer’s requests can expedite contract award. As specified in Section 808 of
Public Law 105-261, an applicant who does not comply with a requirement to submit information 
for a contract or subcontract in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of FAR 15.403-3 may be 
ineligible for award.
b. DCAA-Accepted Accounting System
i. Before a cost-reimbursement type contract can be awarded, the Contracting Officer must 
confirm that the applicant has a DCAA-accepted accounting system in place for accumulating 
and billing costs under Government contracts [FAR 53.209-1(f)]. If the applicant has DCAA 
correspondence, which documents the acceptance of its accounting system, this should be 
provided to the Contracting Officer (i.e. attached or referenced in the proposal). Otherwise, the 
Contracting Officer will submit an inquiry directly to the appropriate DCAA office and request a 
review of the applicant’s accounting system.
ii. If an applicant does not have a DCAA-accepted accounting system in place, the DCAA 
review process can take several months depending upon the availability of the DCAA auditors 
and the applicant’s internal processes. This will delay contract award.
iii. For more information about cost proposals and accounting standards, view the link titled 
“Information for Contractors” on the main menu of the DCAA website.
c. Field Pricing Assistance
During the pre-award cost audit process, the Contracting Officer may solicit support from DCAA 
to determine commerciality and price reasonableness of the proposal [FAR 15.404-2]. Any 
proprietary information or reports obtained from DCAA field audits will be appropriately 
identified and protected within the Government.
d. Sample Cost Proposal – “Piece by Piece”
To help guide applicant s through the pre-award cost audit process, a sample cost proposal is 
detailed below. This sample allows the applicant to see exactly what the Government is looking 
for so that all cost and pricing back-up data can be provided to the Government in the first cost 
proposal submission. Review each cost element within the proposal, and take note of the types of 
documentation that the Contracting Officer will require from the applicant.
i. Direct Labor: The first cost element included in the cost proposal is Direct Labor. Each 
proposed employee must be listed by name and labor category.
58
Below is the Direct Labor as proposed by our sample applicant:
DIRECT LABOR YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Employee 
Name
Labor 
Category
Direct 
Hourly 
Rate
Hours Total Direct 
Labor
Direct 
Hourly 
Rate
Hours Total Direct 
Labor
Andy 
Smith
Program 
Manager
$55.00 720.00 $39,600.00 $56.65 720.00 $40,788.00
Bryan 
Andrews
Senior 
Engineer
$40.00 672.00 $26,880.00 $41.20 672.00 $27,686.40
Cindy 
Thomas
Principal 
Engineer
$50.00 512.00 $25,600.00 $51.50 512.00 $26,368.00
David 
Porter
Entry Level 
Engineer
$10.00 400.00 $4,000.00 $10.30 400.00 $4,120.00
Edward 
Bean
Project 
Administrator
$25.00 48.00 $1,200.00 $25.75 48.00 $1,236.00
Subtotal 
Direct 
Labor (DL)
$97,280.00 $100,198.40
(1) For this cost element, the Contracting Officer requires the applicant to provide adequate 
documentation in order to determine that the labor rate for each employee/labor category is fair 
and reasonable. The documentation must explain how these labor rates were derived. For 
example, if the rates are DCAA-approved labor rates, provide the Contracting Officer with copies 
of the DCAA documents stating the approval. This is the most acceptable means of 
documentation to determine the rates fair and reasonable. Other types of supporting 
documentation may include General Service Administration (GSA) contract price lists, actual 
payroll journals, or Salary.com research. If an employee listed in a cost proposal is not a current 
employee (maybe a new employee, or one contingent upon the award of this contract), a copy of 
the offer letter stating the hourly rate, signed and accepted by the employee, may be provided as 
adequate documentation.
Sometimes the hourly rates listed in a proposal are derived through subjective processes, i.e., 
blending of multiple employees in one labor category, or averaged over the course of the year to 
include scheduled payroll increases, etc. These situations should be clearly documented for the 
Contracting Officer.
(2) Another cost element in Direct Labor is labor escalation, or the increase in labor rates from 
year to year. In the example above, the proposed labor escalation is 3% (ex., Andy Smith’s direct 
labor rate increased by 3% from $55.00/hour in Year 1 to $56.65/hour in Year 2). Often times, 
an applicant may not propose escalation on labor rates during a 24-month period. Whatever the 
proposed escalation rate is, please be prepared to explain why it is fair and reasonable. For 
example, a sufficient explanation for our sample escalation rate would be “The Government’s 
General Schedule Increase and Locality Pay for the same time period (name fiscal year) in the
59
same location (name location) was published as 3.5%; therefore a 3% increase is fair and 
reasonable”.
ii. Other Direct Costs (ODCs): This section of the cost proposal includes all other directlyrelated costs required in support of the effort (i.e., materials, subcontractors, consultants, travel, 
etc.). Any cost element that includes various items must be detailed in a cost breakdown.
(1) Direct Material Costs: This subsection of the cost proposal will include any special tooling, 
test equipment, and material costs necessary to perform the project. Items included in this 
section must be carefully reviewed relative to need and appropriateness for the work proposed, 
and must, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, be advantageous to the Government and 
directly related to the specific topic.
The Contracting Officer will require adequate documentation from the applicant to determine the 
cost reasonableness for each material cost proposed. The following methods are ways in which 
the Contracting Officer can determine this [FAR 15.403-1]:
(a) Adequate Price Competition. A price is based on adequate price competition when 
the applicant solicits and receives quotes from two or more responsible vendors for the 
same or similar items or services. Based on these quotes, the applicant selects the vendor 
who represents the best value to the Government. The applicant will be required to 
provide to the Contracting Officer copies of all vendor quotes received.
*NOTE: Price competition is not required for items at or below the micro-purchase 
threshold ($10,000 - FAR 15.403-1]. If an item’s unit cost is less than or equal to
$10,000, price competition is not necessary. However, if an item’s total cost over the 
period of performance (unit cost x quantity) is higher than $10,000, two or more quotes 
must be obtained by the applicant.
(b) Commercial Prices. Commercial prices are those published on current price lists, 
catalogs, or market prices. This includes vendors who have prices published on a GSAschedule contract. The applicant will be required to provide copies of such price lists to 
the Contracting Officer.
(c) Prices set by law or regulation. If a price is mandated by the Government (i.e. 
pronouncements in the form of periodic rulings, reviews, or similar actions of a 
governmental body, or embodied in the laws) that is sufficient to set a price.
Below is the list of Direct Material costs included in our sample proposal:
DIRECT MATERIAL COSTS YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Raw Materials $35,000.00 $12,000.00
Computer for experiments $4,215.00 $0.00
Cable (item #12-3657, 300 ft) $1,275.00 $0.00
Software $1,825.00 $1,825.00
Subtotal Direct Materials Costs $42,315.00 $13,825.00
60
“Raw Materials”: This is a generic label used to group many material items into one cost item 
within the proposal. The Contracting Officer will require a detailed breakout of all the items that 
make up this cost. For each separate item over $10,000 (total for Year 1 + Year 2), the applicant 
must be able to provide either competitive quotes received, or show that published pricing was 
used.
“Computer for experiments”: This item is most likely a grouping of several components that 
make up one system. The Contracting Officer will require a detailed breakout of all the items 
that make up this cost. For each separate item over $10,000 (total for Year 1 + Year 2), the 
applicant must be able to provide either competitive quotes received, or show that published 
pricing was used.
“Cable”: Since this item is under the micro-purchase threshold of $10,000, competitive quotes or 
published pricing are not required. Simply provide documentation to show the Contracting 
Officer where this price came from.
“Software”: This cost item could include either one software product, or multiple products. If 
this includes a price for multiple items, please provide the detailed cost breakdown. Note: The 
price for Year 1 ($1,825) is below the micro-purchase threshold; however, in total (Year 1 + Year 
2) the price is over $10,000, so competitive quotes or published pricing documentation must be 
provided.
Due to the specialized types of products and services necessary to perform these projects, it may 
not always be possible to obtain competitive quotes from more than one reliable source. Each 
cost element over the micro-purchase threshold ($10,000) must be substantiated. There is always 
an explanation for how the cost of an item was derived; document how you came up with that 
price.
When it is not possible for an applicant to obtain a vendor price through competitive quotes or 
published price lists, the Contracting Officer may accept other methods to determine cost 
reasonableness. Below are some examples of other documentation, which the Contracting 
Officer may accept to substantiate costs:
(a) Evidence that a vendor/supplier charged another applicant a similar price for similar 
services. Has the vendor charged someone else for the same product? Two (2) to three
(3) invoices from that vendor to different customers may be used as evidence.
(b) Previous contract prices. Has the applicant charged the Government a similar price 
under another Government contract for similar services? If the Government has already 
paid a certain price for services, then that price may already be considered fair and 
reasonable. Provide the contract number, and billing rates for reference.
(c) DCAA approved. Has DCAA already accepted or verified specific cost items 
included in your proposal? Provide a copy of DCAA correspondence that addressed these 
costs.
61
(2) ODCs: Below is the remaining ODC portion of our proposal including equipment, 
subcontractors, consultants, and travel. Assume in this scenario that competitive quotes or 
catalog prices were not available for these items:
ODCs YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Equipment Rental for Analysis $5,500.00 $5,600.00
Subcontractor – Widget, Inc. $25,000.00 $0.00
Consultant: John Bowers $0.00 $12,000.00
Travel $1,250.00 $1,250.00
Subtotal: ODCs $31,750.00 $18,850.00
“Equipment Rental for Analysis”: The applicant explains that the Year 1 cost of $5,500 is based 
upon 250 hours of equipment rental at an hourly rate of $22.00/hr. One (1) invoice from the 
vendor charging another vendor the same price for the same service is provided to the 
Contracting Officer as evidence. Since this cost is over the micro-purchase threshold, further 
documentation to determine cost reasonableness is required. The applicant can furnish another 
invoice charging a second vendor the same price for the same service.
“Subcontractor – Widget, Inc.”: The applicant provides a copy of the subcontractor quote to the 
Contracting Officer in support of the $25,000 cost. This subcontractor quote must include 
sufficient detailed information (equivalent to the data included in the prime’s proposal to the 
Government), so that the Contracting Officer can make a determination of cost reasonableness.
(a) As stated in Section 3.5(c)(6) of the DoD Cost Proposal guidance, “All subcontractor 
costs and consultant costs must be detailed at the same level as prime contractor costs in 
regards to labor, travel, equipment, etc. Provide detailed substantiation of subcontractor 
costs in your cost proposal.”
(b) In accordance with FAR 15.404-3, “the Contracting Officer is responsible for the 
determination of price reasonableness for the prime contract, including subcontracting 
costs”. This means that the subcontractor’s quote/proposal may be subject to the same 
scrutiny by the Contracting Officer as the cost proposal submitted by the prime. The 
Contracting Officer will need to determine whether the subcontractor has an accepted 
purchasing system in place and/or conduct appropriate cost or price analyses to establish 
the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices. Due to the proprietary nature of cost 
data, the subcontractor may choose to submit their pricing information directly to the 
Contracting Officer and not through the prime. This is understood and encouraged.
(c) When a subcontractor is selected to provide support under the prime contract due to 
its specialized experience, the Contracting Officer may request sole source justification 
from the applicant.
“Consultant – John Bowers”: The applicant shall provide a copy of the consultant’s quote to the 
Contracting Officer as evidence. In this example, the consultant will be charging an hourly rate 
of $125 an hour for 96 hours of support. The applicant indicates to the Contracting Officer that
62
this particular consultant was used on a previous contract with the Government (provide contract 
number), and will be charging the same rate. A copy of the consultant’s invoice to the applicant 
under the prior contract is available as supporting evidence. Since the Government has paid this 
price for the same services in the past, determination has already been made that the price is fair.
“Travel”: The Contracting Officer will require a detailed cost breakdown for travel expenses to 
determine whether the total cost is reasonable based on Government per diem and mileage rates. 
This breakdown shall include the number of trips, the destinations, and the number of travelers. 
It will also need to include the estimated airfare per round trip, estimated car rental, lodging rate 
per trip, tax on lodging, and per diem rate per trip. The lodging and per diem rates must comply 
with the Joint Travel Regulations. Please see the following website to determine the appropriate 
lodging and per diem rates: http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil. Additionally, the applicant must 
provide why the airfare is fair and reasonable as well. Sufficient back up for both airfare and car 
rental would include print outs of online research at the various travel search engines (Expedia, 
Travelocity, etc.), documenting the prices for airfare and car rentals are fair and reasonable.
Below is a sample of the travel portion:
TRAVEL Unit Trips Travelers Nights Days Unit Cost Total Travel
Airfare roundtrip 1 1 $996.00 $996.00
Lodging day 1 1 1 $75.00 $75.00
Tax on Lodging 
(12%) day 1 1 1 $9.00 $9.00
Per Diem day 1 1 2 $44.00 $88.00
Automobile 
Rental day 1 1 2 $41.00 $82.00
Subtotal Travel $1,250.00
iii. Indirect Costs: Indirect costs include elements such as fringe benefits, general and 
administrative (G&A), overhead, and material handling costs. The applicant shall indicate in the 
cost proposal both the indirect rates (as a percentage) as well as how those rates are allocated to 
the costs in the proposal.
Below is the indirect portion of our sample proposal:
63
INDIRECTS YEAR 1 YEAR 2
Subtotal Direct Labor (DL): $97,280.00 $100,198.40
Fringe Benefits, if not included in Overhead, rate 
(15.0000 %) X DL =
$14,592.00 $15,029.76
Labor Overhead (rate 45.0000 %) X (DL + Fringe) = $50,342.40 $51,852.67
Total Direct Labor (TDL): $162,214.40 $167,080.83
In this example, the applicant includes a fringe benefit rate of 15.00% that it allocated to the 
direct labor costs. The applicant also proposes a labor overhead rate of 45.00% that is allocated 
to the direct labor costs plus the fringe benefits.
All indirect rates and the allocation methods of those rates must be verified by the Contracting 
Officer. In most cases, DCAA documentation supporting the indirect rates and allocation 
methods can be obtained through a DCAA field audit or proposal review. Many applicants have 
already completed such reviews and have this documentation readily available. If an applicant is 
unable to participate in a DCAA review to substantiate indirect rates, the Contracting Officer 
may request other accounting data from the applicant to make a determination.
iv. Facilities Capital Cost of Money (FCCM): Cost of money is an imputed cost that is not a 
form of interest on borrowings (see FAR 31.205-20). FCCM is an “incurred cost” for costreimbursement purposes under applicable cost-reimbursement contracts and for progress 
payment purposes under fixed-price contracts. It refers to (1) FCCM (48 CFR 9904.414) and (2) 
cost of money as an element of the cost of capital assets under construction (48 CFR 9904.417). 
If cost of money is proposed in accordance with FAR 31.205-10, a DD Form 1861 is required to 
be completed and submitted with the applicant’s proposal.
v. Fee/Profit: The proposed fee percentage will be analyzed in accordance with DFARS 
215.404, the Weighted Guidelines Method.
vi. Subcontracting Plan: If the total amount of the proposal exceeds $750,000 and the applicant 
is a large business or an institute of higher education (other than HBCU/MI) and the resultant 
award is a contract, the applicant shall be prepared to submit a subcontracting plan for small 
business and SDB concerns. A mutually agreeable plan will be included in and made a part of 
the contract (see Section II.F.2.b.v).
2. GRANT and COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT Proposals
Before award it must be established that an approved accounting system and financial 
management system exist.
64
a. Direct Labor: Show the current and projected salary amounts in terms of man-hours, manmonths, or annual salary to be charged by the PI(s), faculty, research associates, postdoctoral 
associates, graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, clerical, and other technical 
personnel either by personnel or position. State the number of man-hours used to calculate a 
man-month or man-year. For proposals from universities, research during the academic term is 
deemed part of regular academic duties, not an extra function for which additional compensation 
or compensation at a higher rate is warranted. Consequently, academic term salaries shall not be 
augmented either in rate or in total amount for research performed during the academic term. 
Rates of compensation for research conducted during non-academic (summer) terms shall not 
exceed the rate for the academic terms. When part or all of a person's services are to be charged 
as project costs, it is expected that the person will be relieved of an equal part or all of his or her 
regular teaching or other obligations. For each person or position, provide the following 
information:
i. The basis for the direct labor hours or percentage of effort (e.g., historical hours or 
estimates);
ii. The basis for the direct labor rates or salaries. Labor costs should be predicted upon 
current labor rates or salaries. These rates may be adjusted upward for forecast salary or 
wage cost-of-living increases that will occur during the agreement period. The cost 
proposal should separately identify the rationale applied to base salary/wage for cost-ofliving adjustments and merit increases. Each must be fully explained;
iii. The portion of time to be devoted to the proposed research, divided between academic 
and non-academic (summer) terms, when applicable;
iv. The total annual salary charged to the research project; and
v. Any details that may affect the salary during the project, such as plans for leave and/or 
remuneration while on leave.
Note: There is no page limitation for budget proposals or budget justifications.
b. Fringe Benefits and Indirect Costs (Overhead, G&A, and Other): The most recent rates, dates 
of negotiation, the base(s) and periods to which the rates apply must be disclosed and a statement 
included identifying whether the proposed rates are provisional or fixed. If the rates have been 
negotiated by a Government agency, state when and by which agency. A copy of the negotiation 
memorandum should be provided. If negotiated forecast rates do not exist, applicants must 
provide sufficient detail to enable a determination to be made that the costs included in the 
forecast rate are allocable according to applicable cost provisions. Applicants' disclosure should 
be sufficient to permit a full understanding of the content of the rate(s) and how it was 
established. As a minimum, the submission should identify:
i. All individual cost elements included in the forecast rate(s);
ii. Basis used to prorate indirect expenses to cost pools, if any;
65
iii. How the rate(s) was calculated;
iv. Distribution basis of the developed rate(s);
v. Basis on which the overhead rate is calculated, such as "salaries and wages" or "total 
costs;" and
vi. The period of the applicant's fiscal year.
c. Permanent Equipment: If facilities or equipment are required, a justification why this property 
should be furnished by the Government must be submitted. State the organization's inability or 
unwillingness to furnish the facilities or equipment. Applicants must provide an itemized list of 
permanent equipment showing the cost for each item. Permanent equipment is any article or 
tangible nonexpendable property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition 
cost of $5,000 or more per unit. The basis for the cost of each item of permanent equipment 
included in the budget must be disclosed, such as:
i. Vendor Quote: Show name of vendor, number of quotes received and justification, if 
intended award is to other than lowest bidder.
ii. Historical Cost: Identify vendor, date of purchase, and whether or not cost represents 
lowest bid. Include reason(s) for not soliciting current quotes.
iii. Engineering Estimate: Include rationale for quote and reason for not soliciting current 
quotes.
If applicable, the following additional information shall be disclosed in the applicant’s cost 
proposal:
iv. Special test equipment to be fabricated by the awardee for specific research purposes 
and its cost.
v. Standard equipment to be acquired and modified to meet specific requirements, 
including acquisition and modification costs, listed separately.
vi. Existing equipment to be modified to meet specific research requirements, including 
modification costs. Do not include equipment the organization will purchase with its funds 
if the equipment will be capitalized for Federal income tax purposes. Proposed permanent 
equipment purchases during the final year of an award shall be limited and fully justified.
vii. Grants and cooperative agreements may convey title to an institution for equipment 
purchased with project funds. At the discretion of the Contracting/Grants Officer, the 
agreement may provide for retention of the title by the Government or may impose 
conditions governing the equipment conveyed to the organization per the governing laws 
and regulations.
d. Travel: Forecasts of travel expenditures (domestic and foreign) that identify the destination
66
and the various cost elements (airfare, mileage, per diem rates, etc.) must be submitted. The 
costs should be in sufficient detail to determine the reasonableness of such costs. Allowance for 
air travel normally will not exceed the cost of round-trip, economy air accommodations. Specify 
the type of travel and its relationship to the research project. Separate, prior approval by the 
ARL is required for all foreign travel (i.e., travel outside the continental U.S., its possessions and 
Canada). Travel may be requested to visit Army laboratories and facilities to enhance agreement 
objectives and to achieve technology transfer.
e. Participant Support Costs: This budget category refers to costs of transportation, per diem, 
stipends, and other related costs for participants or trainees (but not employees) in connection 
with ARL-sponsored conferences, meetings, symposia, training activities, apprenticeships and 
workshops (see the “Other Programs” section as described earlier in this BAA). Generally, 
indirect costs are not allowed on participant support costs. The number of participants to be 
supported should be entered in the parentheses on the budget form. These costs should also be 
justified in the budget justification page(s) attached to the cost proposal.
f. Materials, Supplies, and Consumables: A general description and total estimated cost 
of expendable equipment and supplies are required. The basis for developing the cost 
estimate (vendor quotes, invoice prices, engineering estimate, purchase order history, etc.) 
must be included. If possible, provide a material list.
g. Publication, Documentation, and Dissemination: The budget may request funds for the 
costs of preparing, publishing, or otherwise making available to others the findings and 
products of the work conducted under an agreement, including costs of reports, reprints, page 
charges, or other journal costs (except costs for prior or early publication); necessary 
illustrations, cleanup, documentation, storage, and indexing of data and databases; and 
development, documentation, and debugging of software.
h. Consultant Costs: Applicants normally are expected to utilize the services of their own staff 
to the maximum extent possible in managing and performing the project's effort. If the need 
for consultant services is anticipated, the nature of proposed consultant services should be 
justified and included in the technical proposal narrative. The cost proposal should include the 
names of consultant(s), primary organizational affiliation, each individual's expertise, daily 
compensation rate, number of days of expected service, and estimated travel and per diem 
costs.
i. Computer Services: The cost of computer services, including computer-based retrieval of 
scientific, technical, and educational information, may be requested. A 
justification/explanation based on the established computer service rates at the proposing 
organization should be included. The budget also may request costs, which must be shown to 
be reasonable, for leasing automatic data processing equipment. The purchase of computers or 
associated hardware and software should be requested as items of equipment.
j. Subawards (Subcontracts or Subgrants): A precise description of services or materials that 
are to be awarded by a subaward must be provided. For subawards totaling $10,000 or more, 
provide the following specific information:
67
• A clear description of the work to be performed;
• If known, the identification of the proposed subawardee and an explanation of why and 
how the subawardee was selected or will be selected;
• The identification of the type of award to be used (cost reimbursement, fixed price, 
etc.);
• Whether or not the award will be competitive and, if noncompetitive, rationale to 
justify the absence of competition; and
• A detailed cost summary.
k. ODCs: Itemize and provide the basis for proposed costs for other anticipated direct costs such 
as communications, transportation, insurance, and rental of equipment other than computer 
related items. Unusual or expensive items must be fully explained and justified.
l. Profit/ Fee: Profit/fee is not allowed for the recipient of or subaward to an assistance 
instrument, where the principal purpose of the activity to be carried out is to stimulate or support 
a public purpose (i.e., to provide assistance), rather than acquisition (i.e., to acquire goods and 
services for the direct benefit of the Government). A subaward is an award of financial 
assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under a DoD grant or 
cooperative agreement by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient. The term includes financial 
assistance for substantive program performance by the subrecipient of a portion of the program 
for which the DoD grant or cooperative agreement was made. It does not include the recipient's 
procurement of goods and services needed to carry out the program.
m. Subcontracting Plan: Subcontracting plans do not apply to assistance instruments.
n. FCCM: If cost of money is proposed, a completed FCCM (DD Form 1861) is required.
(End of Section)
68
APPENDIX 1: TABLE OF ACRONYMS
ACC Army Contracting Command
AFARS Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
AOR Authorized Organization Representative
APG Aberdeen Proving Ground
AR Army Regulation
ARD Army Research Directorate
ARL Army Research Laboratory
ARO Army Research Office
BAA Broad Agency Announcement
BMBL Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories
CAGE Commercial and Government Entity
CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CFDA Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
CPFF Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee
CUI Controlled Unclassified Information
D&B Dun and Bradstreet
DA Department of Army
DBA Doing Business Name
DCAA Defense Contract Audit Agency
DCMA Defense Contract Management Agency
DEVCOM Combat Capabilities Development Command
DFARS Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DL Direct Labor
DLSC Defense Logistics Service Center
DoD Department of Defense
DoDGARS Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations
DoDI Department of Defense Instruction
DUNS Data Universal Number System
ECP Early Career Program
EDWOSB Economically-Disadvantaged Woman-Owned Small Business
EPA Environmental Protection Agency
F&A Facilities and Administrative
FAPIIS Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System
FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation
69
FCCM Facilities Capital Cost of Money
FDA Food and Drug Administration
FFRDC Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FOA Funding Opportunity Announcement
FSC Federal Service Code
FY Fiscal Year
G&A General and Administrative
GSA General Service Administration
HBCU/MI Historically Black Colleges and Universities and MinorityServing Institutions
HRPO Human Research Protection Official
HSR Human Subjects Research
HUBZone Historically Underutilized Business Zone
ID Identification
IR&D Independent Research and Development
IRB Institutional Review Board
ITAR International Traffic in Arms Regulation
NDAA National Defense Authorization Act
NIH National Institutes of Health’s
ODC Other Direct Cost
OMB Office of Management and Budget
OT Other Transactions
OTA Other Transaction Agreement
PAM Pamphlet
PDF Portable Document Format
PI Principal Investigator
POC Point of Contact
PWS Performance Work Statement
R&R Research and Related
RI Research Instrumentation
ROTC Reserve Officer Training Corps
RTP Research Triangle Park
SAM System for Award Management
SDB Small Disadvantaged Business
SDO Suspension and Debarment Official
SDVOSB Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business
SF Standard Form
70
SI Single Investigator
STEM Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
STIR Short-Term Innovative Research
TDL Total Direct Labor
TIA Technology Investment Agreement
TIN Taxpayer Identification Number
TPOC Technical Point of Contact
U.S United States
U.S.C. United States Code
UARC University-Affiliated Research Center
UIC Unit Identification Code
UIE Unique Item Identifier
USDA/APHIS Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service
USML United States Munition List
VOSB Veteran-Owned Small Business
WOSB Woman-Owned Small Business
XML Extensible Markup Language
(End Section)
71
APPENDIX 2: SCHEDULE OF AMENDMENTS
Amendments to this BAA will be issued according to the following schedule to incorporate 
programmatic or administrative changes to this document, if necessary. The topics, topic 
supplemental info, and TPOCs listed at the ARL BAA topics website, 
https://www.arl.army.mil/opportunities/arl-baa/ may be updated more frequently.
NOTE: Amendments may be issued more frequently at the discretion of the Government.
Estimated Date of Issuance
October 1, 2023
October 1, 2024
October 1, 2025
October 1, 2026
Amendments: 
W911NF-23-S-0001-0001 (Amendment 01) posted on 15 February 2023
W911NF-23-S-0001-0002 (Amendment 02) posted on 1 April 2023
(End Section)