(a) As stated in Section 3.5(c)(6) of the DoD Cost Proposal guidance, “All 
subcontractor costs and consultant costs must be detailed at the same level as prime 
contractor costs in regards to labor, travel, equipment, etc. Provide detailed substantiation 
of subcontractor costs in your cost proposal.” 
(b) In accordance with FAR 15.404-3, “the Contracting Officer is responsible for the 
determination of price reasonableness for the prime contract, including subcontracting 
costs”. This means that the subcontractor’s quote/proposal may be subject to the same 
scrutiny by the Contracting Officer as the cost proposal submitted by the prime. The 
Contracting Officer will need to determine whether the subcontractor has an accepted 
purchasing system in place and/or conduct appropriate cost or price analyses to establish 
the reasonableness of proposed subcontract prices. Due to the proprietary nature of cost 
data, the subcontractor may choose to submit their pricing information directly to the 
Contracting Officer and not through the prime. This is understood and encouraged. 
(c) When a subcontractor is selected to provide support under the prime contract due 
to its specialized experience, the Contracting Officer may request sole source justification 
from the applicant. 
“Consultant – John Bowers”: The applicant shall provide a copy of the consultant’s quote to the 
Contracting Officer as evidence. In this example, the consultant will be charging an hourly rate 
of $125 an hour for 96 hours of support. The applicant indicates to the Contracting Officer that 
this particular consultant was used on a previous contract with the Government (provide contract 
number), and will be charging the same rate. A copy of the consultant’s invoice to the applicant 
under the prior contract is available as supporting evidence. Since the Government has paid this 
price for the same services in the past, determination has already been made that the price is fair. 
“Travel”: The Contracting Officer will require a detailed cost breakdown for travel expenses to 
determine whether the total cost is reasonable based on Government per diem and mileage rates. 
This breakdown shall include the number of trips, the destinations, and the number of travelers. 
It will also need to include the estimated airfare per round trip, estimated car rental, lodging rate 
per trip, tax on lodging, and per diem rate per trip. The lodging and per diem rates must comply 
with the Joint Travel Regulations. Please see the following website to determine the appropriate 
lodging and per diem rates: http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil. Additionally, the applicant must 
provide why the airfare is fair and reasonable as well. Sufficient back up for both airfare and car 
rental would include print outs of online research at the various travel search engines (Expedia, 
Travelocity, etc.), documenting the prices for airfare and car rentals are fair and reasonable. 
Below is a sample of the travel portion: 
TRAVEL Unit Trips Travelers Nights Days Unit Cost Total Travel 
Airfare roundtrip 1 1 $996.00 $996.00 
Lodging day 1 1 1 $75.00 $75.00
116
Tax on 
Lodging 
(12%) 
day 1 1 1 $9.00 $9.00 
Per Diem day 1 1 2 $44.00 $88.00
Automobile 
Rental 
day 1 1 2 $41.00 $82.00 
Subtotal 
Travel 
$1,250.00 
Indirect Costs: Indirect costs include elements such as fringe benefits, general and administrative 
(G&A), overhead, and material handling costs. The applicant shall indicate in the cost proposal 
both the indirect rates (as a percentage) as well as how those rates are allocated to the costs in the 
proposal. 
Below is the indirect portion of our sample proposal: 
INDIRECTS YEAR 1 YEAR 2 
Subtotal Direct Labor (DL): $97,280.00 $100,198.40 
Fringe Benefits, if not included in Overhead, 
rate (15.0000 %) X DL = $14,592.00 $15,029.76 
Labor Overhead (rate 45.0000 %) X (DL + 
Fringe) = $50,342.40 $51,852.67 
Total Direct Labor (TDL): $162,214.40 $167,080.83 
In this example, the applicant includes a fringe benefit rate of 15.00% that it allocated to the 
direct labor costs. The applicant also proposes a labor overhead rate of 45.00% that is allocated 
to the direct labor costs plus the fringe benefits. 
All indirect rates and the allocation methods of those rates must be verified by the Contracting 
Officer. In most cases, DCAA documentation supporting the indirect rates and allocation 
methods can be obtained through a DCAA field audit or proposal review. Many applicants have 
already completed such reviews and have this documentation readily available. If an applicant is 
unable to participate in a DCAA review to substantiate indirect rates, the Contracting Officer 
may request other accounting data from the applicant to make a determination. 
iii. FCCM: Cost of money is an imputed cost that is not a form of interest on borrowings (see 
FAR 31.205-20). FCCM is an “incurred cost” for cost-reimbursement purposes under applicable 
cost-reimbursement contracts and for progress payment purposes under fixed-price contracts. It 
refers to (1) FCCM (48 CFR 9904.414) and (2) cost of money as an element of the cost of capital 
assets under construction (48 CFR 9904.417). If cost of money is proposed in accordance with 
117
FAR 31.205-10, a DD Form 1861 is required to be completed and submitted with the applicant’s 
proposal. 
iv. Fee/Profit: The proposed fee percentage will be analyzed in accordance with DFARS 
215.404, the Weighted Guidelines Method. 
v. Subcontracting Plan: If the total amount of the proposal exceeds $700,000 and the 
applicant is a large business or an institute of higher education (other than HBCU/MI) and the 
resultant award is a contract, the applicant shall be prepared to submit a subcontracting plan for
small business and SDB concerns. A mutually agreeable plan will be included in and made a 
part of the contract (see Section II.F.2.b.v). 
2. GRANT and COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT Proposals
Before award it must be established that an approved accounting system and financial 
management system exist. 
a. Direct Labor: Show the current and projected salary amounts in terms of man-hours, manmonths, or annual salary to be charged by the PI(s), faculty, research associates, postdoctoral 
associates, graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, clerical, and other technical 
personnel either by personnel or position. State the number of man-hours used to calculate a 
man-month or man-year. For proposals from universities, research during the academic term 
is deemed part of regular academic duties, not an extra function for which additional 
compensation or compensation at a higher rate is warranted. Consequently, academic term 
salaries shall not be augmented either in rate or in total amount for research performed during 
the academic term. Rates of compensation for research conducted during non-academic 
(summer) terms shall not exceed the rate for the academic terms. When part or all of a 
person's services are to be charged as project costs, it is expected that the person will be 
relieved of an equal part or all of his or her regular teaching or other obligations. For each 
person or position, provide the following information: 
i. The basis for the direct labor hours or percentage of effort (e.g., historical hours or 
estimates); 
ii. The basis for the direct labor rates or salaries. Labor costs should be predicted upon 
current labor rates or salaries. These rates may be adjusted upward for forecast salary or 
wage cost-of-living increases that will occur during the agreement period. The cost 
proposal should separately identify the rationale applied to base salary/wage for cost-of
living adjustments and merit increases. Each must be fully explained; 
iii. The portion of time to be devoted to the proposed research, divided between academic 
and non-academic (summer) terms, when applicable; 
iv. The total annual salary charged to the research project; and 
118
v. Any details that may affect the salary during the project, such as plans for leave and/or 
remuneration while on leave. 
Note: There is no page limitation for budget proposals or budget justifications. 
b. Fringe Benefits and Indirect Costs (Overhead, G&A, and Other): The most recent rates, dates 
of negotiation, the base(s) and periods to which the rates apply must be disclosed and a 
statement included identifying whether the proposed rates are provisional or fixed. If the rates 
have been negotiated by a Government agency, state when and by which agency. A copy of 
the negotiation memorandum should be provided. If negotiated forecast rates do not exist, 
applicants must provide sufficient detail to enable a determination to be made that the costs 
included in the forecast rate are allocable according to applicable cost provisions. Applicants' 
disclosure should be sufficient to permit a full understanding of the content of the rate(s) and 
how it was established. As a minimum, the submission should identify: 
i. All individual cost elements included in the forecast rate(s); 
ii. Basis used to prorate indirect expenses to cost pools, if any; 
iii. How the rate(s) was calculated; 
iv. Distribution basis of the developed rate(s); 
v. Basis on which the overhead rate is calculated, such as "salaries and wages" or "total 
costs;" and 
vi. The period of the applicant's FY. 
c. Permanent Equipment: If facilities or equipment are required, a justification why this property 
should be furnished by the Government must be submitted. State the organization's inability 
or unwillingness to furnish the facilities or equipment. Applicants must provide an itemized 
list of permanent equipment showing the cost for each item. Permanent equipment is any 
article or tangible nonexpendable property having a useful life of more than one year and an 
acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. The basis for the cost of each item of permanent 
equipment included in the budget must be disclosed, such as: 
i. Vendor Quote: Show name of vendor, number of quotes received and justification, if 
intended award is to other than lowest bidder. 
ii. Historical Cost: Identify vendor, date of purchase, and whether or not cost represents 
lowest bid. Include reason(s) for not soliciting current quotes. 
iii. Engineering Estimate: Include rationale for quote and reason for not soliciting current 
quotes. 
119
If applicable, the following additional information shall be disclosed in the applicant’s cost 
proposal: 
iv. Special test equipment to be fabricated by the awardee for specific research purposes 
and its cost. 
v. Standard equipment to be acquired and modified to meet specific requirements, 
including acquisition and modification costs, listed separately. 
vi. Existing equipment to be modified to meet specific research requirements, including 
modification costs. Do not include equipment the organization will purchase with its 
funds if the equipment will be capitalized for Federal income tax purposes. Proposed 
permanent equipment purchases during the final year of an award shall be limited and 
fully justified. 
vii.Grants and cooperative agreements may convey title to an institution for equipment 
purchased with project funds. At the discretion of the Contracting/Grants Officer, the 
agreement may provide for retention of the title by the Government or may impose 
conditions governing the equipment conveyed to the organization per the governing 
laws and regulations. 
d. Travel: Forecasts of travel expenditures (domestic and foreign) that identify the destination 
and the various cost elements (airfare, mileage, per diem rates, etc.) must be submitted. The 
costs should be in sufficient detail to determine the reasonableness of such costs. Allowance 
for air travel normally will not exceed the cost of round-trip, economy air accommodations. 
Specify the type of travel and its relationship to the research project. Requests for domestic 
travel must not exceed $3,000 per year per PI. Separate, prior approval by the ARL is 
required for all foreign travel (i.e., travel outside the continental U.S., its possessions and 
Canada). Foreign travel requests must not exceed $1,800 each per year per PI. Special 
justification will be required for travel requests in excess of the amounts stated above and for 
travel by individuals other than the PI(s). Individuals other than the PI(s) are considered 
postdoctoral associates, research associates, graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, 
clerical, and other technical personnel. 
Additional travel may be requested for travel to Army laboratories and facilities to enhance 
agreement objectives and to achieve technology transfer.
(1) Participant Support Costs: This budget category refers to costs of transportation, per 
diem, stipends, and other related costs for participants or trainees (but not employees) in 
connection with ARO-sponsored conferences, meetings, symposia, training activities,
apprenticeships and workshops (see the “Other Programs” section as described earlier in this 
BAA). Generally, indirect costs are not allowed on participant support costs. The number of 
participants to be supported should be entered in the parentheses on the budget form. These 
costs should also be justified in the budget justification page(s) attached to the cost proposal.
120
(2) Materials, Supplies, and Consumables: A general description and total estimated 
cost of expendable equipment and supplies are required. The basis for developing the cost 
estimate (vendor quotes, invoice prices, engineering estimate, purchase order history, etc.) 
must be included. If possible, provide a material list.
(3) Publication, Documentation, and Dissemination: The budget may request funds for the 
costs of preparing, publishing, or otherwise making available to others the findings and
products of the work conducted under an agreement, including costs of reports, reprints, page 
charges, or other journal costs (except costs for prior or early publication); necessary 
illustrations, cleanup, documentation, storage, and indexing of data and databases; and 
development, documentation, and debugging ofsoftware.
(4) Consultant Costs: Applicants normally are expected to utilize the services of their own 
staff to the maximum extent possible in managing and performing the project's effort. If the 
need for consultant services is anticipated, the nature of proposed consultant services should be 
justified and included in the technical proposal narrative. The cost proposal should include the 
names of consultant(s), primary organizational affiliation, each individual's expertise, daily 
compensation rate, number of days of expected service, and estimated travel and per diem
costs.
(5) Computer Services: The cost of computer services, including computer-based retrieval of 
scientific, technical, and educational information, may be requested. A justification/explanation 
based on the established computer service rates at the proposing organization should be 
included. The budget also may request costs, which must be shown to be reasonable, for leasing 
automatic data processing equipment. The purchase of computers or associated hardware and 
software should be requested as items of equipment.
(6) Sub-awards (Subcontracts or Sub-grants): A precise description of services or materials 
that are to be awarded by a sub-award must be provided. For sub-awards totaling $10,000 or 
more, provide the following specific information:
• A clear description of the work to be performed;
• If known, the identification of the proposed sub-awardee and an explanation of why and how the 
sub-awardee was selected or will be selected;
i. The identification of the type of award to be used (cost reimbursement, fixed price, 
etc.); 
ii. Whether or not the award will be competitive and, if noncompetitive, rationale to 
justify the absence of competition; and 
iii. A detailed cost summary.
121
e. ODCs: Itemize and provide the basis for proposed costs for other anticipated direct costs such 
as communications, transportation, insurance, and rental of equipment other than computer 
related items. Unusual or expensive items must be fully explained and justified. 
f. Profit/ Fee: Profit/fee is not allowed for the recipient of or sub-award to an assistance 
instrument, where the principal purpose of the activity to be carried out is to stimulate or 
support a public purpose (i.e., to provide assistance), rather than acquisition (i.e., to acquire 
goods and services for the direct benefit of the Government). A sub-award is an award of 
financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under a DoD 
grant or cooperative agreement by a recipient to an eligible sub-recipient. The term includes 
financial assistance for substantive program performance by the sub-recipient of a portion of 
the program for which the DoD grant or cooperative agreement was made. It does not include 
the recipient's procurement of goods and services needed to carry out the program. 
g. Subcontracting Plan: Subcontracting plans do not apply to assistance instruments. 
h. FCCM: If cost of money is proposed, a completed FCCM (DD Form 1861) is required. 
(End of Section) 
APPENDIX 1: TABLE OF ACRONYMS 
AA Assessment and Analysis 
ACC Army Contracting Command 
AEM Anion Exchange Membrane 
AFARS Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
ALD Atomic Layer Deposition 
AMC Army Materiel Command 
AOR Authorized Organization Representative 
APG Aberdeen Proving Ground 
AR Army Regulation 
ARL Army Research Laboratory 
ARO Army Research Office 
ASA(ALT) Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology 
BAA Broad Agency Announcement 
CAGE Commercial and Government Entity 
CCE Core Campaign Enablers 
CCM Computational Chemistry and Materials 
CE Chemical Energy 
CEA Computational Electromagnetics and Acoustics 
122
CFD Computational Fluid Dynamics 
CFR Code of Federal Regulations 
C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
and Reconnaissance 
CFDA Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance 
COTS Commercial Off the Shelf 
CPFF Cost Plus Fixed Fee 
C-RAM Counter-Rockets, Artillery, and Mortar 
C-UAS Counter Unmanned Aerial System 
CS Computational Sciences 
CSA Chief of Staff of the Army 
CSM Computational Structural Mechanics 
DA Department of Army 
D&B Dun and Bradstreet 
DBA Doing Business Name 
DCAA Defense Contract Audit Agency 
DCMA Defense Contract Management Agency 
DES Discrete Event Simulation 
DFARS Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
DLSC Defense Logistics Service Center 
DoD Department of Defense 
DoDI Department of Defense Instruction 
DoE Design of Experiments 
DSL Doman Specific Language 
DVE Degraded Visual Environment 
EA Electronic Attack 
ECM Energy Coupled to Matter 
EDWOSB Economically-Disadvantaged Woman-Owned Small Business 
EME Electromagnetic Environment 
ET Embedded Training 
EW Electronic Warfare 
FAPIIS Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System 
FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation 
FCCM Facilities Capital Cost of Money 
FFRDC Federally Funded Research and Development Center 
FSC Federal Service Code 
FWA Federal Wide Assurance 
FY Fiscal Year 
G&A General and Administrative 
123
GCS Ground Combat System 
GFD Government Furnished Data 
GFE Government Furnished Equipment 
GFI Government Furnished Information 
GFP Government Furnished Property 
GSA General Service Administration 
HBCU/MI Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving 
Institutions 
HSI Human Systems Integration 
HPC High Performance Computing 
HRPO Human Research Protection Official 
HS Human Sciences 
HSATS Human Systems Analytic Tool Suite 
HSR Human Subjects Research 
HUBZone Historically Underutilized Business Zone 
HWIL Hardware in the Loop 
IE Information Extraction 
IED Improvised Explosive Device 
IMU Inertial Measurement Unit 
IR&D Independent Research and Development 
IRB Institutional Review Board 
IS Information Sciences 
IT Information Technology 
ITAR International Traffic in Arms Regulation 
KCI Key Campaign Initiative 
KE Kinetic Energy 
LED Light Emitting Diodes 
MAR Mixed Augmented Reality 
MAV Manned Aerial Vehicle 
MBE Molecular Beam Epitaxy 
MEMS Microelectromechanical Systems 
METT-TC Mission, Enemy, Terrain and Weather, Troops and Support Available, Time 
Available, Civil Considerations 
M2M Machine to Machine 
MOCVD Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition 
MR Materials Research 
M&S Modeling and Simulation 
MSC Major Subordinate Command 
MT Machine Translation 
124
MTF Modulation Transfer Function 
NLOS Non Line of Sight 
NLP Natural Language Processing 
ODC Other Direct Cost 
OMB Office of Management and Budget 
OHRP Office for Human Research Protections 
OTA Other Transaction for Prototype 
PAM Pamphlet 
PDF Portable Document Format 
PE Programming Environments 
PFN Pulse-Forming Network 
PI Principal Investigator 
PIC Photonic Integrated Circuit 
PNT Position, Navigation, and Timing 
POC Point of Contact 
PPE Personal Protective Equipment 
PWS Performance Work Statement 
R&D Research and Development 
RDECOM Research, Development, and Engineering Command 
ROTC Reserve Officer Training Corps 
R&R Research and Related 
RTP Research Triangle Park 
SAM System for Award Management 
SBS Stimulated Brillouin Scattering 
SbT/MgC Subterranean and Megacity 
ScL/P Sciences for Lethality and Protection 
ScMVR Sciences for Maneuver 
SDB Small Disadvantaged Business 
SDO Suspension and Debarment Official 
SDN Software Defined Network 
SDVOSB Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business 
SF Standard Form 
SLV Survivability, Lethality, and Vulnerability 
S&T Science & Technology 
STTW Sensing Through the Wall 
TBI Traumatic Brain Injury 
TCAD Technology Computer-Aided Design 
T&E Test & Evaluation 
TIA Technology Investment Agreement 
TIC Toxic Industrial Chemical 
125
TIM Toxic Industrial Material 
TIN Taxpayer Identification Number 
TPOC Technical Point of Contact 
TRADOC Training and Doctrine Command 
TTP Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
UAS Unmanned Aerial System 
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle 
UB Underbody Blast 
UIC Unit Identification Code 
UQ Uncertainty Quantification 
U.S.C. United States Code 
USDA/APHIS Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service 
USML United States Munition List 
UWB Ultra-Wideband 
UXO Unexploded Ordinance 
VCSEL Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Laser 
VOSB Veteran-Owned Small Business 
VRAMS Virtual Risk-Informed Agile Maneuver Sustainment 
VSP Visiting Scientist Program 
VTOL Vertical Takeoff and Landing 
WOSB Woman-Owned Small Business 
(End Section)