b. KCI-MR-2: Energy Efficient Electronics and Photonics 
ARL aims to discover, design and develop future electronic devices, circuits, materials, 
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), on-chip energetic materials, and heterogeneous 
integration techniques that enable order of magnitude reductions in the power-draw of systems 
for Soldier and small platforms while maintaining or increasing functionality. Novel circuit 
topologies combined via heterogeneous integration with emerging electronic and photonic 
devices on conventional substrates such as silicon will enable new energy efficient front ends 
that result in longer mission lifetime for Army systems. Advanced wideband gap devices will 
be critical for smart power management as well as highly efficient radio frequency power 
amplifiers for assured communications and electronic warfare (EW) applications. Advanced 
electronic materials work may comprise: two dimensional materials; active heterogeneous 
interfaces; photonics sources and detectors and topological phases of matter to reduce the 
power demand of future electronic and photonic systems. MEMS offer alternative ways to 
enhance electronic devices and extend their capabilities to offer novel power management 
approaches, no or lower-power overall power solutions for electronics devices, and enable 
energy efficient system level approaches for highly adaptable, tunable, and reconfigurable 
electronics. On-chip energetics offer a way to generate energy at the chip level reducing overall 
system size, weight, and power requirements as well as adding new functionality not available 
via traditional electronics. Ultimately, the heterogeneous integration of novel electronic and 
photonic materials with conventional substrates such as silicon will open up a new paradigm 
for Army systems. 
TPOC: James Wilson, (301) 394-0328, james.e.wilson889.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-MR-3: Agile Expedient Manufacturing 
The objective of the Agile Expedient Manufacturing KCI is to enable adaptive, rapid, and low 
cost fabrication of replaceable parts that are certified for service through the development of 
novel synthesis and processing methods. The subject KCI’s objectives includes 2D and 3D 
hybrid electronics assembly and packaging concepts for sensors and systems. Manufacturing 
capabilities developed through this effort are expected to enable 3D additive approaches that 
facilitate alloying-by-design concurrent with (near-) net-shape fabrication with reduced time 
from raw material to finished component. Research contributing to this goal includes the 
system thermodynamics and kinetics within a meta-stable environment of rapid heating, 
material melting, alloy mixing, cooling and solidification, and solid state transformation 
throughout the entire 3D additive manufacturing process. Materials (commercial off-the-shelf 
(COTS), bio-derived, indigenous, and specialty materials) of varying length-scale and 
morphology (nano, multi-phase, 2D/3D composites, and coatings) and various material classes 
(metallics, ceramics, glasses, polymers, and composites) are the basis from which property 
datasets are established for component design. Designing and producing the precursor 
materials is a key component of this effort. Further, this work is focused on developing a 
better understanding of the preconditioning, and tailoring of precursor materials for 
thermomechanical processing to achieve the designed properties and performance. The 2D and 
18
3D hybrid electronics shall support the development of additive processes for flexible 
electronics and 3D hybrid electronics and research in components sensors that include, but are 
not limited to, Soldier health monitoring, asset monitoring, communications, antennas and 
navigation, and soft robotics. Related topics that engage education and workforce development 
are also of interest.
A second objective of the Agile Expedient Manufacturing KCI is to develop a multi-material 
2D/3D composites capability for fabrication, characterization, and printing of polymer/ceramic 
composite electromagnetic and conductive materials for antennas and other radio frequency 
devices. Increased versatility of additive manufacturing (AM) in the RF design space requires 
high dielectric substrates. AM filaments with dielectric constants greater than 6 are not 
commercially available. Research investigating methods for extruding high dielectric AM 
filaments through a robust and repeatable method that allows for the printing of AM substrates 
with a given value of dielectric constant is paramount. Furthermore, characterization of 
complex dielectric constant from ultra-high frequency (UHF) through Ka-band will be 
required. A final need for 2D/3D composites is research in the area of conductive inks. 
Conductive inks can achieve conductivity of five to ten times less than bulk copper, but require 
sintering at temperatures above 175 degrees Celsius. 2D/3D composites printed from polymer 
based filaments will melt at these temperatures, preventing the goal of hybrid 3D printing of 
RF components and antennas. Alternative methods, such as localized laser sintering or flash 
annealing are examples of research methods hoping to achieve high conductivity in the 
presence of 3D printed polymer substrates. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil, Gregory Mitchell, 
(301) 394-2322, Eric Forsythe, (301) 394-0606, eric.w.forsythe.civ@mail.mil, and Harvey 
Tsang, (301) 394-5734, harvey.h.tsang.civ@mail.mil.
d. KCI-MR-4: Quantum Sciences 
Over the past century, the quantum principles of superposition, electronic structure, and 
uncertainty relations gave us tremendous advances in a number of applications relevant to the 
military, including atomic clocks, magnetometry, PNT, and gravimetry. While these areas can 
still be improved through technological advances, next generation gains in sensing and in 
secure communications will occur through the concept of quantum entanglement. 
An ideal approach to investigating entanglement is through exploration of a quantum network, 
in which quantum information and processing can be stored in quantum memories at multiple 
nodes. Great advances have been made to increase the fidelity of critical quantum components 
needed to establish a resilient network of quantum entangled resources in various atomic and 
solid-state systems. Although several research groups have demonstrated point-to-point 
quantum teleportation, entanglement distribution, quantum error correction, and quantum 
memory, no scalable, integrated, modular architecture exists by which one can connect three or 
more quantum nodes and through which quantum information may be processed. 
19
A particularly critical requirement is the establishment of efficient light-matter interfaces, 
which enable photons to be written into and read from a quantum system. The in-house 
Quantum Sciences effort working cooperatively with academia and industry will investigate 
this aspect of an entanglement-based distributed quantum network. Specifically, we will 
explore both ensemble quantum systems (neutral atom gases and rare-earth stoichiometric 
crystals) and single qubit systems (ion traps and solid state defects). Examples of approaches 
to enhanced light-matter interactions are cavity QED and nanophotonic integration. Additional 
efforts within this program are to explore Army-relevant applications for such distributed 
entanglement; identify performance limitations of a distributed heterogeneous quantum 
network that must be overcome or are fundamental. Specific material components include 
quantum memories, quantum registers, quantum processors, quantum switches, quantum 
frequency conversion devices, entangled photon sources, single-photon detectors, matterphoton interfaces, quantum sensors, as well as other technologies enabling the realization of 
integrated, chip-scale and/or modular components for robust, mobile distributed quantum 
information networks. 
TPOC: Frederick Fatemi, (301) 394-1531, fredrik.k.fatemi.civ@mail.mil. 
e. KCI-MR-5: Energy Coupled to Matter (ECM) for Responsive Materials 
ECM is an emerging technology that goes beyond the traditional process optimization factors 
of scale, composition, temperature, and pressure. The research focuses on the understanding 
that energy transfer is non-linear. Design of Experiments (DoE) methodologies are coupled 
with modeling as one approach to understanding the physics of energy transfer in the synthesis 
and processing of materials under high and multi-physics fields (e.g. electric, magnetic, 
acoustic, microwave, radiation, and others). This work pursues innovative physics-based 
approaches for controlling the thermodynamic behavior of metals, intermetallics, polymers, 
ceramics and hybrid composite systems. Manipulating transformation pathways in favor of 
new non-equilibrium alloys, aligned phases, controlled nanoscale architectures, and producing 
materials with revolutionary, on-demand, permanent or temporary material properties or shape 
changes will provide an unparalleled opportunity for advanced materials. Additionally, 
materials developed using ECM principles will have been designed and transitioned for 
application to enable adaptive ”on-command” protection technologies by diverting, bending, 
and fracturing ballistic threat projectiles with greater efficiency, thus reducing system weight 
and volume. Further, higher strength projectiles fabricated through ECM MR will be used as a 
foundation to design lethal effects for defeating future enemy protection systems. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil. 
f. KCI-MR-6: Lightweight Materials 
This area seeks lightweight materials of all classes on-demand (flexible and affordable 
manufacturing innovations) and by-design (from atoms to properties) in order to develop and 
achieve concurrent materials and system design with significant weight reduction. This 
20
initiative develops and exploits computational materials models, guided and validated by 
experiments. These models include realistic materials physics, executed at the appropriate 
length and time scales, to accurately model material composition, (micro)structure, mechanical 
and physical properties and system performance. This is expected to enable the discovery, 
design and synthesis of material systems in concert with fabrication and system design not 
possible today. The material’s performance in the system is not only based on materials 
properties, but also includes the component’s functional design as part of the system. Specific 
research emphasis for discovering new lightweight materials and to quantify their performance 
in system designs include: a) property-processing-microstructure relationships in lightweight 
metals (magnesium, aluminum, titanium and high strength-to-weight alloys) within the 
chemistry, nano-engineering, solidification and thermomechanical processing design space; b) 
high rate toughening of lightweight armor ceramics that can support vehicular structural loads; 
and c) common efficient load transfer in hybrid lightweight composites via polymer and hybrid 
fiber interfacial engineering. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-MR-1: Designing Materials 
The MR CCEs in Designing Materials is a sustained effort to systematically build a science and 
engineering-based capability to design materials and related devices. Whether this be for 
electron, photon, phonon, mechanical, chemical, or living matter behavior, it relies on 
predicting and advancing the physics, chemistry, biology, and related engineering between 
microstructure and performance to enable the design of model materials and devices for Army 
relevant applications. 
Microstructure is the detailed description of materials from the atomistic to the relevant bulk 
scale for functional and performance purposes. Performance is the material system constitutive 
behavior in its passive or responsive state detailed by the combined intrinsic and extrinsic 
physical, biological, and chemical properties. Examples of materials and device performance 
goals are those identified in MR KCIs in Quantum Science, Energy Efficient Electronics and 
Photonics, Materials for Soldier and Platform Power Systems, Lightweight Materials, ECM 
and Responsive Materials, and Agile Expedient Manufacturing. To achieve the ability to 
design materials, the fundamental scientific requirement is the ability to effectively 
characterize the material state (microstructure) at the relevant length scales, and accurately 
predict through physics-based models and mechanisms the resultant properties of the material 
and even the final component based upon that knowledge alone. The objective of this MR CCE 
is to achieve the knowledge necessary to provide model materials and devices designed and 
optimized for predetermined Army-centric performance requirements. 
i. The MR CCE on Designing Materials investigates and advances mechanisms in organic, 
inorganic and living material microstructures relevant to three performance challenges: 
21
(1) Materials and devices to resist and perform under extreme dynamic, thermal, 
mechanical, chemical, biological environments; this effort considers all material classes. 
(2) Materials and devices to absorb, divert, convert, emit, detect, and direct the 
electromagnetic space. These include photonic, spintronic, and electronic devices, as well as 
electrochemical energy devices and biology enabled/enhanced devices. 
(3) Materials and devices to store and control rate-release of energy including device 
design work-such as on-chip pyrotechnic devices. These include battery materials; fuel cells; 
and other components. 
ii. The strategic approach to these focuses include: 
(1) Application of multi-scale M&S tools for articulation and virtual exploration of 
scientific mechanisms, bridging the material length and time scales, for a predictive design 
tool. Integrated materials by design capabilities for structural, electronic, electromagnetic, 
power and energetic materials for ARL KCIs and Army relevant material challenges. 
(2) Bio-inspired materials from living matter and systems/synthetic biology to design 
materials at a high degree of fidelity and unparalleled control. 
The integrated CCEs in Designing Materials, Materials Synthesis and 
Processing, and Materials Characterization and Discovery will be the foundation to leap ahead 
from Integrated Computational Materials Science and Engineering, to Ab Initio Design of 
materials and devices, to Production for Performance. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil, and William Benard, 
(301) 394-1322, william.l.benard.civ@mail.mil. 
h. CCE-MR-2: Materials Synthesis and Processing 
The purpose of this MR CCE in Materials Synthesis and Processing is to advance the 
fundamental sciences in synthesis and processing enabling fabrication of Army relevant 
materials and devices. New approaches and innovation in material synthesis and processing 
are necessitated by emerging requirements to explore new material systems, optimize materials 
for Army applications, and develop new processing methods to realize and transition materials 
to Army relevant applications. The desired synthesis and processing science will enable 
fabrication from atomistic-design to engineering bulk material and devices. This knowledge 
based research will seed synthesis and processing innovations in manipulating organic and 
inorganic matter to build materials with precision placement of atoms or with biological 
building blocks from design. 
In creating and broadening an opportunistic environment in synthesis and processing science 
for materials by design, three research foci will be emphasized: 
22
i. Synthesize, refine and tailor precursor materials’ chemistry and microstructure and 
subsequent processing methods to achieve the designed material specification as well as using 
biological systems leading to biologically inspired and/or derived synthesis of materials and 
devices. 
ii. Layer and construct materials, including 1 dimensional seeding, 2 dimensional surfaces, 
up to 3 dimensional bulk or layered element-by-element deposition methods, controlling the 
progressive material structure and properties systematically. 
iii. New methods for characterizing material properties for device-level modeling and 
selectively etching, depositing, and patterning synthesized and deposited materials to realize 
functional devices. 
This MR CCE in Synthesis and Processing will provide the underpinning sciences and 
engineering to deliver tangible materials from model material by design to support all the KCIs 
where materials are needed on-demand. 
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil. 
i. CCE-MR-3: Materials Characterization and Discovery 
The R&D of technology that can fully detail atoms-to-meters of materials will enable not just 
validation of what was predicted, but also discovery of the unexpected and the unknown. This 
MR CCE in Material Characterization and Discovery, in conjunction with the Materials Design 
and the Synthesis and Processing MR CCEs, is foundational and the door to future disruptive 
and un-planned discoveries enabling the MR KCIs in Quantum Science, Efficient Electronics 
and Photonics, Power for Soldier and Platforms, Lightweight Materials, ECM, and Agile 
Expedient Manufacturing. 
Contemporary methods to interrogating materials include a suite of spectroscopy, microscopy, 
and experimental characterization. Within each of these methods are extensive research and 
efforts to attain higher fidelity, better resolution, better consistencies, and in less time. The 
ARL continues to focus on advancing these techniques to explore materials enabling disruptive 
technologies for the Army. 
The MR CCE on Materials Characterization and Discovery is grounded on: 
(1) Designing and developing mechanistic-focused experimentation, 
 
(2) Enhancing and developing novel spectroscopic, microscopic and experimental techniques 
in conjunction with the other MR CCEs to enable the MR KCIs, and 
(3) Developing real-time full spectral probing, sensing, analytics and informatics to enable 
discovery of the unexpected. 
23
TPOC: Robert Dowding, (410) 306-0632, robert.j.dowding.civ@mail.mil, and William Benard, 
(301) 394-1322, william.l.benard.civ@mail.mil. 
Materials Research (MR) Related Topics:
j. Photonics 
i. Novel Solid State Lasers and Laser Materials: The Army is interested in research on 
innovative gain media, for example laser-quality ceramics with emphasis on engineerable 
doping and index profile (e.g., gradient doping, sharp-step wave-guiding structures with sub10-micrometer diffusion zone); solid-state materials for high-gain stimulated Brillouin 
scattering (SBS) and stimulated Raman scattering (SRS); specialty fibers and fiber lasers 
suitable for high average powers and power scaling (e.g., with compositions for ultra-high SBS 
threshold; fully crystalline double-clad, i.e., crystalline core/crystalline cladding fibers; noncircular, high aspect ratio, fiber designs with well-developed mode selection mechanisms or 
self-mode selection); and advanced laser materials for diode-pumped eye-safe lasers (e.g., 
based on high and ultra-high thermal conductivity hosts, environmentally stable low-phonon 
hosts, or exceptionally high emission/absorption cross-section laser materials). 
TPOC: Mark Dubinskiy, (301) 394-1821, mark.dubinskiy.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Techniques for Power Scaling of Diode-Pumped Solid State Lasers: The Army also has 
interest in innovative highly efficient pump-coupling techniques; innovative pump diode and 
active medium cooling techniques (e.g., cooling via optically transparent highly thermoconductive materials); passive and active laser beam/aperture combining methods; laser 
wavelength shifting techniques for achieving high average powers with optimum eye-safety; 
active and passive wave-front distortion compensating/OPD reducing techniques. 
TPOC: Mark Dubinskiy, (301) 394-1821, mark.dubinskiy.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Semiconductor Modeling: ARL has identified a strategic need to foster and accelerate 
collaborative research related to the modeling of advanced electro-optic semiconductor 
materials and devices. This Modeling Center will act as a repository of a broad base of 
modeling knowledge to be shared across the community in order to foster the development of 
new materials as well as to reduce the timeline between “discovery” and manufacturing. 
Specific areas of modeling collaboration interest include: 
(1) Fundamental materials modeling related to semiconductor growth via molecular beam 
epitaxy (MBE), metal organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD), and atomic layer 
deposition (ALD). Interests lie in probing the parameter space related to developing new or 
exotic semiconductor alloy materials and structures encompassing II-VI, III-V, and III-VI 
systems with applications in the UV, IR, and topological and quantum regimes. 
24
(2) Electrical properties, including carrier transport and dynamics within semiconductor 
materials and across interfaces; carrier injection, and device performance metrics such as 
modulation transfer function (MTF) and noise. 
TPOC: Gregory Brill, (301) 394-0192, gregory.n.brill.civ@mail.mil, and Meredith Reed, (301) 
394-0603, meredith.l.reed.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Semiconductor Materials and Device Characterization: ARL has an interest in 
understanding fundamental materials and device properties of a host of semiconductor based 
alloy systems that encompass IR, UV, plasmonic, and topological applications. Interest lies in 
performing structural, electrical, optical, and chemical characterization and relating results 
back to models developed with the goal of significantly enhancing, or creating completely new 
capabilities. Some specific areas of interest include, time-resolved photoluminescence, pumpprobe measurements, angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy, magneto-transport, and gfactor measurements of topological materials. 
TPOC: Gregory Brill, (301) 394-0192, gregory.n.brill.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Fast optical switching: The Materials Campaign requires research in transparent 
nonlinear optical (NLO) materials, electro-optical (EO) materials, metamaterials, and in related 
components and devices that can reduce their optical transmission across the visible, NIR, 
SWIR, MWIR, and/or LWIR wavelength range passively, or actively when subjected to an 
incident laser beam within that wavelength range. Orders of magnitude of reduction of 
transmission are desired. Materials and devices must be highly transmissive in the initial state. 
Technical areas of interest include, but are not limited to, the following: 
(1) Development of optical materials with large nonlinearities and a broad wavelength 
and/or pulse-width response. This can include molecular modeling, material synthesis, and 
characterization of nonlinear parameters as well as nonlinear transmission studies to determine 
structure-property relationships to improve performance. 
(2) Modeling efforts to relate nonlinear material properties to their ability to effectively 
reduce transmission. Modeling effort should include details on how the nonlinear materials 
affect the propagation of incoming laser beams. 
(3) Development of active broadly tunable metamaterial structures and devices including 
modeling studies and characterization efforts. 
(4) Novel experimental techniques for characterization of nonlinearities, lifetimes, 
switching speeds, etc. 
TPOC: William Shensky, (301) 394-0937, william.m.shensky.civ@mail.mil. 
25
vi. Photonic and Integrated Photonics Devices and Modules: Research is encouraged 
pertaining to active and passive devices as well as fiber based technology for sensing, analog 
RF signal generation/processing, communication, data and optical signal processing. Active 
device research includes the development of bulk and integrated sources, modulators, detectors 
and waveguides, and the development of technologies for their integration into processor 
architectures. Active interface devices include semiconductor light emitting diodes (LED), 
lasers, photo detectors, solar cells, modulators, amplifiers and waveguides, with operation in 
the UV to IR spectral region, as well as integrated drivers and receivers. Also of interests are 
novel high-bandwidth (10s GHz) photonic devices, components, modules, and subsystems
which incorporate 𝜺 & 𝝁 near zero, or negative, metamaterials, high-contrast metastructures, 
photonic crystals, and/or other novel material concepts. Finally, there is strong interest in 
integrated photonic research to include on-chip processing, layout, mounting, and device 
cooling for one, two and three dimensional photonic integrated circuits (PICs) for the following 
applications: chemical specific sensing, laser ranging and imaging, free space optical 
communications and radio-frequency photonics. 
TPOC: Weimin Zhou, (301) 394-1435, weimin.zhou.civ@mail.mil, and Holthoff, (301) 394-
0939, ellen.l.holthoff.civ@mail.mil. 
vii. Advanced Concepts for Chemical Specific Sensing Applications: ARL is exploring new 
and enabling detection technologies for human performance and hazardous material sensing 
applications. The ultimate goal of our research efforts is to develop low SWAP-C point sensors 
for these field applications. Desirable features of sensor systems include: high specificity in 
analyte identification, small in size for field portability, low power requirements, low cost, and 
stability for long periods of time under various environmental conditions. The several key 
sensor research thrust areas are integrated photonic transduction techniques, direct 
spectroscopic methodologies, recognition elements (e.g. Molecularly Imprinted Polymers), and 
health monitoring bio-marker identification. Our current research interests includes 
development of point and wearable embodiments using mainly optical techniques and 
technology, including photonic integrated circuits. The desired sensor technologies are not 
limited to these methods, but may use mechanical or other novel detection methods. Optical 
technologies include, but are not limited to, new optical sources and detectors for sensors, 
waveguide structures, optical resonantors, non-linear optics, Raman techniques, and 
fluorescence with specific emphasis on photonics devices in PIC platforms. 
TPOC: Ellen Holthoff, (301) 394-0939, ellen.l.holthoff.civ@mail.mil. 
k. Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) 
Precision Measurements and Control for Constrained Systems and Contested Environments: 
Research areas include methods, electronics and algorithms to enable robust state-estimation 
and control from distributed, heterogeneous, omnipresent, multi-aspect sensors; miniature 
navigation-grade inertial measurement units (IMUs) leveraging MEMS fabrication; sensor 
fusion architectures for distributed sensing with IMUs with alternative sensing modalities (e.g.,