vision) or other signals of opportunity; flexible and distributed anti-jam antenna solutions; and 
non-RF long range transmission of secure timing solutions. Also of interest are free-space time 
transfer via optical links, or RF links, chip-scale photonic based precision long-holding 
oscillator/clocks that may incorporate micro-resonators, integrated optical frequency comb, 
environmental insensitive cavities, as well as quantum/atomic based devices. The goal is to 
enable innovative solutions providing precision state-estimation, PNT solutions for GPSdenied and contested environments and extremely size, weight, power, and processing 
constrained systems to generate leap-ahead technologies by pursuing non-traditional materials, 
integration methods, and system architectures. 
TPOC: William Nothwang, (301) 394-1163, william.d.nothwang.civ@mail.mil, and Weimin 
Zhou, (301)394-1435, weimin.zhou.civ@mail.mil.
l. Energy and Power 
i. Wide Band-Gap Power Devices. ARL is seeking proposals for research of wide band gap 
devices in the following areas: 
(1) Device design and fabrication of monolithic and hybrid voltage-controlled SiC or GaN
high-temperature high-field power devices. 
(2) High-temperature high-field insulator materials for use as gate dielectric and field 
passivation layers for application to SiC and/or GaN power devices. 
(3) Advanced Technology Computer-Aided Design (TCAD) modeling methods, techniques 
and/or material models that advance computational efficiency or accuracy. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil, Aivars Lelis, (301) 394-5426, 
aivars.j.lelis.civ@mail.mil, and Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Heat Transfer and Thermal Management. Research and modeling in materials and 
techniques to remove high heat fluxes from power electronics, cool sensor components, 
improve efficiency of small energy converters, recuperate & repurpose waste heat energy, 
improve thermal system packaging, improve environmental control units, and understand 
multi-phase heat transfer fundamental mechanisms. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Microsystems power components and conversion: research in high power density, 
multifunctional components and sub-systems for capturing, transforming, converting and 
delivering power to compact systems or wearable technologies. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil. 
27
iv. Energy Science: R&D of novel materials and routes to energy. These could include 
development of alternative routes to fuel such as direct photoelectrolytic routes to hydrogen or 
energy, photovoltaic devices that have very high efficiency for development of devices suitable 
for portable power, can also include metamaterials that could be used in catalysis, high 
efficiency solar or waste heat to energy. Other routes for waste heat to energy include 
thermoelectric, pyroelectric, and thermo-photovoltaic devices. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil, and Cynthia Lundgren, (301) 
394-2541, cynthia.a.lundgren2.civ@mail.mil. 
v. Nuclear Detection and Sensors: Develop and study approaches that include compact 
sensors that can be arrayed for large area survey and data fusion. Investigate sensor element 
architectures that enhance system energy efficiency supporting 100 microwatt power level 
sources and increased performance of compact devices. 
TPOC: Marc S. Litz, (301) 394-5556, marc.s.litz.civ@mail.mil, and James Carroll, (301) 
3941411, james.j.carroll99.civ@mail.mil. 
m. Biologically Derived Sensor, Power, Device and Materials Research (MR) 
This effort is characterized by three main core competencies: the study of biological systems, 
synthetic biomaterials and biotic/abiotic interface science. These areas are used to build future 
technologies designed to increase situational awareness, reduce logistic loads and provide new 
capabilities in extreme operational environments. Goals include the development of 
revolutionary biological, photonic, electronic and organic- electronic hybrid devices and 
sensors. In an effort to capitalize on these advances, targeted investigations will be conducted 
in the following areas: 
 
i. Biosensors to either sense biology or sense with biology. 
ii. Synthetic recognition discovery tools including engineered biomolecular scaffolds through 
low cost cell sorting technologies. 
iii. Natural and synthetic metabolic network analysis including metabolomics, regulation, tools 
for building synthetic networks and predictive modeling. 
iv. Photonic and electronic devices that utilize or harness biology to function. 
v. Biologically derived power generation and storage. 
vi. Biological waste-to-energy / waste-to-commodity chemical conversion. 
vii. Biological / Bio-Hybrid / Bio-electronic materials that are built from biological 
structures or assembled/enabled by biological structures. 
28
viii. Bio/Abio Interface Science: Developing integrated bio-/abio materials and systems for 
organism / hardware interactions. 
ix. Computational Biology: Fundamental understanding of atomic and molecular properties and 
interactions (as bioinformatics and computational systems biology) enabling biological, biohybrid, and bio-mimetic materials and devices. 
x. Synthetic Biology: Engineer and construct modified biological systems to achieve 
unprecedented function and performance. This includes an effort in Living Materials to 
explore the novel concept of responsive materials imparting living functions for operation in 
Army relevant environments thus enabling disruptive capabilities, such as self-healing, 
adaptation, protection, and situational awareness. Interests include research to enable 
design and synthesis of materials both enabled by and including biological entities to 
provide these living functions. 
TPOC: James J. Sumner, (301) 394-0252, james.j.sumner4.civ@mail.mil. 
n. RF-to-THz Devices and Integrated Circuit Technology 
ARL is interested in research on innovative electronic substrate and epitaxial materials, devices, 
and monolithic circuits; and integration techniques for digital, mixed-signal, and RF, 
millimeter-wave to Terahertz (THz) applications, including radar, communications, EW, and 
sensor systems. Research should involve materials, devices, integrated circuits, and 
subsystems, built upon advanced Si-based, III–V, III-nitride, and II-VI materials, ultra-wide 
bandgap (i.e. diamond), novel device structures, nano-technology innovative circuit topology, 
and multi-level, and/or heterogeneous integration technology. The research may also include
related device, circuit, subsystem, and system level CAD modeling and analysis to achieve 
optimal performance.
TPOC: Ali Darwish, (301) 394-2532, Tony Ivanov, (301) 394-3568, 
tony.g.ivanov.civ@mail.mil, and Ed Viveiros, (301) 394-0930, 
edward.a.viveiros2.civ@mail.mil.
3. SCIENCES FOR MANEUVER (ScMVR) CAMPAIGN 
The ScMVR Campaign focuses on gaining a greater fundamental understanding of advanced 
mobility technologies that enable innovative vehicles configurations and subsystems 
architectures – critical to the future Army’s movement, sustainment, and maneuverability. 
Knowledge gained through these research efforts will lead to technologies for the design, 
fabrication, integration, control, and platforms support that will significantly improve Army 
power projection superiority. 
29
The ScMVR Campaign has developed three KCIs, four CCEs, and one ScMVR-related topic 
that are integrated to form a robust foundation to understand and overcome complex 
fundamental challenges associated with Energy and Propulsion; Platform Mechanics; Vehicle 
Intelligence; and Logistics and Sustainability. The campaign builds on fundamental pillars of 
science and engineering to conduct research in manned and unmanned Army air and ground 
vehicles. Discoveries and innovations made in this area will exert a significant impact on the 
Army of the future. 
a. KCI-ScMVR-1: Force Projection and Augmentation through Intelligent Vehicles 
ARL research is focused on developing fundamental understanding through greatly improved 
vehicle perceptual, learning, reasoning, communication and physical capabilities that will 
enable future unmanned vehicle systems operating in the air, on the ground, or in maritime 
environments. ARL’s goal is to facilitate effective intelligent vehicle interactions with Soldiers 
and the local populace that engender trust essential to forming efficient teams. Technological 
advances are envisioned to create the potential for affordable, interoperable autonomous and 
semi-autonomous systems that improve the effectiveness of Soldiers and units. Intelligent 
vehicles are expected to deploy as force multipliers at all echelons from squads to brigade 
combat teams. Future intelligent vehicles are expected to augment Soldiers and increase unit 
capabilities, situational awareness, mobility, and speed of action. ARL research is creating 
machine cognition as well as reasoning, learning and communication behaviors that can, in 
certain scenarios, replace the operator (driver or pilot) for future unmanned vehicles. Robust 
capabilities to analyze and assess research developments are also critical to inform research. 
ARL seeks proposals to further its technical goals which include, but are not limited to: 
i. Cognition architecture and supporting technologies to model the world in semantic terms, 
permit reasoning based on abstractions, and allow interactive communication with Soldiers 
using structural language; 
ii. Semantic labeling of an increasingly larger vocabulary of objects and behaviors to permit a 
richer, more detailed description of the environment (including determination of critical 
scene elements, actions and relationships to be remembered for future use in machine 
planning, learning and reasoning; recognition of changes in the physical and tactical 
environment as a cue to significant activity requiring reaction; and incorporation of 
contextual information and life-long learning into reasoning; 
iii. Capabilities to infer purpose from the relationships among objects in the environment and 
behaviors (activities) exhibited by people (teammates, adversaries, and non-combatants) and 
place objects and behaviors into context; 
iv. Enhanced capabilities to generalize and rapidly learn from a limited number of exemplars: 
monitor execution, identify conditions requiring reconsideration of plans and modifications 
of behaviors, and autonomously initiate re-planning processes; 
30
v. Enable machines to explain knowledge, actions and predicted outcomes to enable rapid 
redistribution of tasks between Soldier and robot, enhancing transparency and engendering 
trust by human collaborators; 
vi. Interactions with the physical world applicable to a broad range of scales, from 
Microsystems through larger tactical vehicles, which includes the ability to pick up and move 
objects, either upon semantic direction or their own initiative, and to maneuver in three 
dimensional space/terrain while negotiating obstacles in spaces that Soldiers cannot travel; and 
vii. Representative test-bed vehicles, both air and ground, on which to integrate, exercise 
and explore integrated component technologies at appropriate scales in relevant, 
reconfigurable environments. 
TPOC: Raghuveer M. Rao, (301) 394-0860, raghuveer.m.rao.civ@mail.mil, Mary Anne Fields, 
(410) 278-6675, mary.a.fields22.civ@mail.mil, Harris Edge, (410) 
278-4317, harris.l.edge.civ@mail.mil, Marshal Childers, (410) 278-7996, 
marshal.a.childers.civ@mail.mil, Christopher Kroninger, (410) 278-5690, 
christopher.m.kroninger.civ@mail.mil, Stuart Young, (301) 394-5618, and David Baran, (301) 
394-5613, david.baran2.civ@mail.mil. 
b. KCI-ScMVR-2: Advanced, Electrical Power Technologies and Components 
With the demand for higher efficiency and performance, the Army has traditionally migrated 
from mechanical systems to electronic systems. In the future, this evolution will be even more 
attractive and necessary as networked power management holds the promise of enabling 
additional capabilities, benefits and cost savings. The Advanced, Electrical Power 
Technologies and Components effort addresses the development of a broad spectrum of 
materiel and devices that will be required by Army systems developers in the coming years. Of 
special focus are high-voltage components that will accelerate the realization of compact, high
energy (sub-) systems. 
This research effort is expected to have the following Army impacts: 
• Improving mission effectiveness of Army platforms through the development of 
necessary energy and power underpinning devices and circuits that are required to 
enable electric-based component technologies. 
• Reducing logistics burdens through the development of more efficient electrical power 
generation, distribution, and conversion components and systems. 
This research effort will focus on pursuing advanced, electrical power technologies and 
components to enable efficient Army platforms. The goals of this work are to overcome 
barriers to realization of intelligent, solid-state alternatives to selected electromechanical 
components; components and techniques for improved thermal management of transient 
31
heating events in electronic systems; high voltage components based on advanced wide 
bandgap semiconductors; intelligent power conditioning modules and interfaces for power 
conversion and inversion; and induction-based, electrical energy storage devices that approach 
20 J/cc capacities. 
Specific research areas include: 
i. Power Conditioning. The Army is searching for innovative technologies and 
techniques for reducing the size, weight, cost, and logistics footprint of power conditioning 
systems across the full range of mobile and stationary Army applications incorporating energy 
networks. High efficiency and high temperature operation (for reduced cooling) are also 
critical requirements. Some specific areas of interest include: 
(1) Novel power converters. 
(2) Novel materials and designs for high-temperature power conditioning capacitors and 
inductors. 
(3) High performance components such as switches and capacitors. 
(4) Pulse-Forming Network (PFNs) and power conversion technology for lethality, 
survivability and directed energy capabilities and future high power and high voltage loads. 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Morris Berman, (301) 394-
4188, morris.s.berman.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Energy Materials and Components. Tactical Energy Networks. 
(1) Power lines sensing technologies are sought to determine types and specifications of 
loads and sources that cannot or do not provide the information directly Primary interest areas 
are sensors to collect information from a power line; techniques to analyze power line data; and 
methods to interrogate loads and sources through passive or active methods. 
(2) Advanced cognitive techniques are desired to allow real time adaptive operation and 
longer term predictive modeling to provide energy-informed operation of energy networks. 
Primary interest areas are technologies to enable machine-based decisions for stationary energy 
networks that utilize heuristics and cognitive techniques. A key goal is to provide learned 
behavior with input from external sources such as operational data, weather, maintenance and 
other factors. 
(3) Novel power conditioning components and control research in technologies are needed 
to allow efficient conversion of power between frequencies and voltages with the ability to 
scale system power levels based on needs. 
32
(4) Research in tactical energy communications and control technologies is also desired to 
include layered architectures comprising physical, data, and communication; exploration of 
technologies that interact between the information, energy, and warfighter domains. Key areas 
to include interfaces for micro-grids; hardware and distribution boxes; and M&S of operation 
and performance in multiple domains. 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301)394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Morris Berman, (301) 394-
4188, morris.s.berman.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Power Electronics Packaging. 
(1) High performance packaging materials, methods and systems are needed that enable the 
full performance level of wide bandgap power electronics. This includes high temperature (Tj 
> 200° C), high voltage ( > 10 kV), and high frequency (Mhz range) operation. 
(2) Integrated design techniques and modeling are sought that utilize co-engineering and/or 
co-design to improve power packaging by understanding the trade-offs among power density, 
reliability, thermal performance, and electrical performance. 
(3) Novel applications of standard additive manufacturing techniques as well as novel 
additive manufacturing techniques are desired to enable advanced and high performance power 
packaging. In addition, techniques and methods to functionalize structural, aerodynamic 
and/or other structures by integrating power electronics features are of interest. 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Morris Berman, (301) 
3944188, morris.s.berman.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-ScMVR-3: Discover and Advance Vertical Takeoff and Landing (VTOL) 
Innovations, Novel Concepts, and Ideas 
Innovative capabilities are needed to achieve higher vehicle speeds, improved hover efficiency, 
greater vehicle ranges, increased payload, and reduced maintenance to achieve performance 
attributes for future VTOL platforms. ARL conducts foundational aeromechanics research to 
enable future Army rotorcraft with performance capabilities that are currently infeasible. In 
addition, analytical and experimental capabilities to support development of advanced 
numerical methods and computational codes for assessing aero-elastic, aeromechanical, and 
structural dynamics performance are of interest. Technologies are sought to enhance 
maneuverability in complex environments at higher operating speeds without degrading hover 
efficiency. Fundamental technology analysis capabilities are also needed to model vehicles 
and their components. Research tools are also needed for understanding and developing 
capabilities that couple physics-based analyses to examine performance in full-spectrum 
military operations. 
33
ARL seeks proposals to (a) develop algorithms, methods, and tools for flight mechanics, 
dynamics predictions, performance assessment, and design space exploration of VTOL 
vehicles for sizes ranging from small unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to large vehicles; (b) 
develop new technologies to achieve revolutionary improvements in vehicle performance (such 
as active flow control and active structural shape control) to achieve revolutionary vehicle 
performance improvements across different flight regimes; and (c) explore innovative vehicle 
concepts for large VTOL platforms and micro/small autonomous air vehicles. Vehicle 
concepts may also exploit advances in the electric hybrid propulsion, multi-copter, and 
reconfigurable structure technologies. Novel proposal concepts from structural dynamics, 
aerodynamic performance, coupled fluids/structures, and/or nonlinear dynamics theoretic 
perspectives are relevant. 
ARL also seeks proposals exploring advanced actuation to achieve locomotion and flight, 
including associated methods of control. Advancements for actuators, mechanism fabrication, 
and new/novel materials are of interest. Actuated structures using such advancements may 
explore highly complex systems employing energy efficient mobility techniques (such as 
impedance matched actuation, variably tuned compliance, and adaptive morphologies). 
Proposals focusing on complex networked and distributed actuation techniques integrated into 
structures that provide multiple functions such as mobility, actuation, dexterity, structure, 
kinetic energy (KE) dissipation, or redirection are also of interest. Lastly, increasing system 
complexity paired with dynamic environmental operating contexts requires a transformation in 
engineering design theory, methods, and tools. Existing design engineering approaches are 
often inadequate to detect interaction complexities early in design, as they assume that a 
system can be described as a sum of its parts. 
TPOC: Rajneesh Singh, (410) 278-4022, rajneesh.k.singh.civ@mail.mil, Hao Kang, (410) 278-
6811, hao.kang2.civ@mail.mil, and Christopher Kroninger, (410) 278-5690, 
christopher.m.kroninger.civ@mail.mil. 
d. CCE-ScMVR-1: Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics 
The ScMVR CCE in Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics offers the 
opportunity to develop electrical power systems that provide the Army efficient electrical 
switching technology with advanced capabilities. This effort will be supported by the analysis 
and characterization of devices, improved understanding of wide band gap device performance 
and reliability, and advances in circuit topologies and control algorithms. The ScMVR CCE on 
Advanced Switching and Control for Power Electronics Research will focus on four areas: 
i. Advanced circuit simulation tools and methods that enable topology and device trade-off 
analyses for the design of extreme and/or novel power conversion and motor-control 
circuits in future Army applications. 
ii. Highly efficient circuit design for power electronics applications at voltage, temperature 
and power extremes. 
34
iii. Adaptive and predictive algorithms for motor control and power conversion. 
iv. Exploitation of extreme and/or novel operating modes of advanced wide band gap devices 
that result in performance gains and/or new capabilities. 
 
TPOC: Bruce Geil, (301) 394-3190, bruce.r.geil.civ@mail.mil, and Wes Tipton, (301) 394-
5209, charles.w.tipton6.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-ScMVR-2: High-Power-Density and Energy-Efficient Engine and Drivetrain 
Technologies 
ARL advances fundamental sciences in engine and powertrain technologies to improve the 
performance, operational capabilities, and sustainment of Army vehicles. Power density and 
fuel efficiency are key engine parameters that directly influence vehicle capabilities in speed, 
range, and payload. Efficient and robust distribution of propulsive power enhances the 
mobility and survivability of military vehicles. ARL also investigates novel approaches for the 
efficient distribution of vehicle propulsive power routed from power plants to propulsive 
devices. Efforts under this core competency enabler include fundamental scientific research in 
combustion science, tribology and lubrication (including tribological surfaces/coatings, 
lubricants and manufacturing processes for improved power density and operation under 
starved lubrication in harsh environments); high temperature propulsion materials; multi-speed 
transmissions; innovative drive train technologies and concepts; and advanced engine 
technologies for ground and air applications. 
i. Fuel Spray and Combustion Science. ARL seeks proposals on fuel spray and 
combustion science. The Army is interested in technologies to increase engine power density 
and efficiency, while operating on a single fuel. In order to realize these technologies, it is 
critical to understand the fundamental physics and chemistry in energy conversion from fuel to 
mechanical power. The areas of research interest include, but are not limited to, high-resolution 
optical and laser diagnostics, optically dense spray diagnostics, supercritical sprays, 
conventional and alternative fuels, and high-fidelity modeling. 
TPOC: Jacob Temme, (410) 278-9455, jacob.e.temme.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Tribology and Lubrication in Power Transfer. ARL seeks research proposals in the area 
of high performance tribological interfaces transferring power from power-plants to thrust
producing devices for Army ground and air vehicles. At the fundamental level, interface 
science probing nanoscale composition, properties and behavior of surfaces and solid interfaces 
in power transfer devices is of interest. Also of keen interest is power transfer tribology 
investigating solid, liquid, gas, and mixed phase lubrication and wear phenomena enabling 
high performance, robust, and reliable mechanical component technologies. Research is 
sought in novel material systems and treatments applied to mechanical interfaces to provide 
enhanced life and step-function changes in power density and resistance to damage. 
35
TPOC: Brian Dykas, (410) 278-9545, brian.d.dykas.civ@mail.mil, and Stephen Berkebile, 
(410) 278-9547, stephen.p.berkebile.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. High Temperature Propulsion MR. ARL seeks research proposals on high-temperature 
materials and structures for advanced propulsion concepts that will improve engine 
performance and reliability while reducing weight and cost. Technical challenges include the 
development of engine and power conversion materials to enable unprecedented maneuver 
capabilities in degraded environments. Operating conditions for combustion engines include 
high temperatures (3000⁰F or above) as well as thermomechanical fatigue and creep resistant 
materials operating in sandy or salt-fog environments. Development of theoretical, physics
based models, and methods to assess process-structure-property relationships for complex 
materials (such as ceramic matrix composites, fatigue resistant fiber/metal laminates, and 
engineered metal alloys) are needed to achieve Army goals. The Army thrust for damage 
tolerant structures requires high fidelity material state awareness. Research capabilities to 
detail mechanical, thermal, and chemical behaviors of propulsion materials at high-transient 
elevated temperatures and harsh environments are in their infancy. High temperature sensors, 
thermal and chemical damage quantification, and life cycle analyses (including accurate and 
reliable material life prediction) are lacking. Research efforts toward design, manufacturing 
and insertion of materials-by-design for high-temperature turbomachinery are sought. 
TPOC: Muthuvel Murugan, (410) 278-7903, muthuvel.murugan.civ@mail.mil, and Anindya 
Ghoshal, (410) 278-7358, anindya.ghoshal.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Turbomachinery Science. ARL seeks proposals for adaptive turbomachinery 
component concepts that will enable high efficiency, high power density gas turbine engines 
for Army rotorcraft. Concepts are also sought for Unmanned Air Vehicle propulsion systems 
relying on VTOL. Research on smart materials based articulating or adaptive turbomachinery 
components that can enable improved engine stall stability margin and higher aerothermodynamic efficiency under off-design conditions is also of interest to the Army. 
TPOC: Waldo Acosta, (216) 433-3393, waldo.a.acosta.civ@mail.mil, Muthuvel Murugan, 
(410) 278-7903, muthuvel.murugan.civ@mail.mil, and Anindya Ghoshal, (410) 278-7358, 
anindya.ghoshal.civ@mail.mil. 
v. Drivetrain Research. ARL seeks proposals for innovative concepts for the distribution 
and transfer of propulsive power in Army vehicles such as helicopters, ground vehicles, and 
unconventional or unmanned small aircraft. Improved distribution of shaft work may be 
accomplished through novel technologies applied to bearings, gears, seals, shafts, splines, 
couplings, clutches, etc. Also, proposals are desired for hybrid drivetrains, lightweight electric 
machines and similar approaches that reduce mechanical interfaces for aircraft in power classes 
and configurations where commercial technology does not currently exist. 
TPOC: Brian Dykas, (410) 278-9545, brian.d.dykas.civ@mail.mil, and Waldo Acosta, (216) 
433-3393, waldo.a.acosta.civ@mail.mil. 
36
vi. Innovative Engine Technologies. ARL seeks proposals on innovative engine 
technologies to enable higher power density, higher efficiency, reduced signatures, multi-fue