anytime, including while deployed. The goal is to enable more cost-effective training and 
mission rehearsal and accelerate ET into the current force. Pacing technologies include, but are 
not limited to: 
(1) Embedding training and mission rehearsal on current force vehicles, 
(2) Innovative methods for image generation and stimulated weapon sensors, 
(3) Methods to modify analog-based systems (brake, steering, direct view optics), 
(4) Embedded visual and display systems, and 
(5) Mounted/dismounted interoperable ET environments. 
TPOC: Latika Eifert, (407) 384-5338, latika.eifert@us.army.mil. 
vi. Medical Training: ARL has an interest in researching, developing, and demonstrating 
technologies, techniques, and strategies for immersing the military medical community into 
realistic, simulated military medical training environments for initial, transition, refresher, and 
sustainment training, including both individual and team training. Specific areas for 
consideration include: 
(1) Technologies to reduce or eliminate the use of live tissue and cadavers in military medical 
training, 
(2) Medical visualization and innovative display systems (e.g., autostereoscopic or 
holographic technologies), 
(3) Virtual patients and novel interaction capabilities, 
(4) Integration with existing warfighter simulations, 
(5) Medical training technologies that realistically simulate human trauma, 
(6) High-fidelity patient simulation technologies, 
(7) Simulated tissue with properties that approach those of live human tissue, 
(8) Olfactory and malodor simulation technologies, 
(9) Simulated body fluids and hemostatic agent training technologies, 
(10) Personal computer, game-based and mobile application training technologies, and 
60
(11) Methodologies that improve cost effectiveness and increase test scores as well as skill 
levels. 
TPOC: Jack Norfleet, (407) 384-3897, jack.e.norfleet.civ@mail.mil. 
vii. Synthetic Environments: Army simulation and battle command systems are 
transforming into highly integrated, distributed/collaborative One World Terrain tool suites 
that depend on accurate, timely geospatial data. Providing representations of complex 
environments is a critical element of models and simulations, requiring interoperability of 
heterogeneous simulation systems. The research emphasis is to provide the capability to 
represent the synthetic environment as realistically as possible to support the Army mission. 
Areas of consideration focus on synthetic environments representation and include: 
(1) Environment generation. 
(2) Environment representation. 
(3) Environment services. 
(4) Dynamic environments. 
 
TPOC: Julio De La Cruz, (407) 384-3733, julio.a.delacruz4.civ@mail.mil. 
viii. Dismounted Soldier Research: The Army needs advanced technology to provide 
dismounted Soldiers with fully immersive, simulation based training environments. ARL has 
an interest in researching, developing and demonstrating technologies and techniques for 
virtual immersion as well as next generation Mixed Augmented Reality (MAR) environments 
for dismounted Soldiers. ARL seeks to explore methods of presenting 2D/3D virtual objects 
(representing various targets, fire and effects, vehicles, etc.) to the dismounted Soldier while 
operating both indoors and outdoors. Additionally, the trainee would be capable of interacting 
with virtual targets, personnel, vehicles, etc. as though real. Specific technologies of interest 
include, but are not limited to: 
(1) Visual and display systems to include head mounted displays, 
(2) Computer systems, 
(3) Wireless tracking devices to include markerless tracking technologies, 
(4) Natural locomotion, 
(5) Wireless video/audio transmission, 
(6) MAR systems to include optically aided video odometry, 
61
(7) Accurate depth sensing and occlusion mapping, 
(8) Visual landmark detection technology, 
(9) Mission rehearsal, 
(10) Distributed AAR systems, and 
(11) Advanced synthetic natural environments. 
TPOC: Pat Garrity, (407) 384-3663, patrick.j.garrity4.civ@mail.mil. 
ix. Training Support Technologies: ARL is investigating innovative, license-free tools, and 
techniques to train and educate Soldiers and leaders in individual and team knowledge, skills,
attributes, and abilities in order to execute full spectrum operations in an era of persistent 
conflict. Specific areas of interest include: 
(1) Next-Generation Learning Management Systems, 
(2) Authoring tools that are user friendly with minimum train-up time and support the rapid 
development of learning principle-based content across several platforms (e.g. game-based, 
mobile, virtual worlds), 
(3) Content Management Systems that are data-driven and capable of taking doctrine, training 
requirements, historical records, and other user inputs, 
(4) Social Media and Social Networks for Learning in and out of the classroom, and 
(5) Other innovative learning technologies in support of the Army Learning Model. 
TPOC: Charles Amburn, (407) 384-3901, charles.r.amburn.civ@mail.mil, and Matthew 
Hackett, (407) 384-5349, matthew.g.hackett.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-HS-4: Humans in Multi-Agent Systems 
This CCE focuses on providing the critical technological breakthroughs needed for future 
Army multi-, mixed-agent teams across distributed network systems. These technologies must 
effectively merge human and agent capabilities for collaborative decision making and 
enhanced team performance; ensure that diverse teams of Soldiers comprehend new and 
critical information to maintain unprecedented situation awareness; and interact effectively 
with Soldiers and noncombatants to foster trust and gain community acceptance and influence 
across cultures and within complex, dynamic, politically sensitive environments. These 
complex multi-agent networked teams will enable faster and better informed decisions; reduce 
62
Soldier workload; provide otherwise unachievable levels of situation understanding and 
management; and maintain strategic and tactical advantages in future operating environments 
requiring the integration of cyber-human-physical dimensions. 
The objective of this research is to provide the critical technological breakthroughs needed to 
shape current and future networked operational environments consisting of Army multi-agent, 
mixed-agent (humans, robots, associate agents, and intelligent systems) in distributed network 
systems to: (1) effectively enable teaming among human, robotic, and mixed-agent capabilities 
for collaborative decision-making and enhanced team performance in dynamic, and complex 
socio-technical environments; (2) ensure that diverse teams of Soldiers comprehend new and 
critical information to achieve unprecedented situational awareness, while maintaining optimal 
information burden on individuals; and (3) interact effectively with Soldiers and 
noncombatants in civil military scenarios to foster trust and gain community acceptance across 
cultures, and within complex, dynamic, and politically sensitive environments; and visualize 
and understand the complex dense urban environment battlespace and the diverse sociocultural dynamics in a dense urban environment to allow Soldiers to effectively execute 
mission plans, sustain military forces, predict population behavior, and provide humanitarian 
support to civil populations. 
Core research areas include: 
i. Human-Agent Teams: the establishment and calibration of trust, the processes required 
for deep collaboration, and dynamic and individualized interactions. 
ii. Socio-Technical Systems: the networks required to support distributed, coordinated, 
and collaborative decision making across teams, with an emphasis on mission command and 
the cyber domain. 
iii. Socio-Cultural Influences: captured in virtual agents for training and operational 
contexts, the influences on decision making. 
This research results of this CCE will inform interface design for mission command, and 
distributed and collaborative decision making, and the cyber security domain, as well as 
informing organizational design. This research will examine and identify the reasonable limits 
of human processing of big data and multi-modal inputs. Efforts on human supervision of 
robotic assets will transition to fundamental research on teaming with remote and intelligent 
assets. 
TPOC: Norbou Buchler, (410) 278-9403, norbou.buchler.civ@mail.mil. 
63
7. ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT (AA) CAMPAIGN 
ARL’s Analysis and Assessment Campaign is focused on guiding the development and 
integration of technologies, substantially broadening the range of issues that can be addressed 
with analytical rigor, and improving the throughput and responsiveness of the analytical 
processes. This campaign builds on fundamental pillars of mathematics, statistics, physics, 
materials science, engineering, and chemistry to conduct SLV analyses in areas including 
Ballistic SLV, EW SLV, Cyber SLV, Personnel Survivability, Human-Systems Interface, and 
Complex Adaptive Systems. Efforts in these six analyses areas are the CCEs that provide the 
enduring technical thrusts to enable the analysis and assessment to be performed. 
The AA Campaign also has three KCIs related to the development of tools, techniques and 
methodology to support complex, multi-domain analysis and interactive situational analytical 
techniques. Accomplishing these aims will empower the Army RDT&E community with 
solutions that will be demanded by technological and strategic realities of today and the future. 
a. KCI-AA-1: Methodology for A&A of Complex Systems and Technologies Across 
Multiple Domains
The development of an A&A methodology for complex systems and technologies that 
addresses cyber and electromagnetic activities, swarming munitions, autonomous systems, and 
human-agent teaming, underpinned by a mathematical framework of complexity and emergence 
theory. The resultant methodology will integrate physics and engineering-based models with 
tactics, techniques, and procedures applicable to the assessment of systems of interest to 
understand the effects of specific technical parameters on mission outcome. The A&A 
methodology will also include advanced data analysis tools, which will generate the knowledge 
required by decision makers and others to fully assess the causes and implications of system 
performance within complex, multi-domain, and operationally relevant environments. The 
analysis tools will include appropriate measures of effectiveness and associated metrics of 
performance, as well as unique ways to visualize the results and intuitively appreciate their
impacts. This advanced analytical capability will provide detailed insight for the design and 
development of systems and technologies, as well as their integration with the operational force 
to produce the most resilient system.
The goal of this technical program is to enable integrated coherent analysis of the behavior of 
complex adaptive systems across multiple domains in a tactically realistic environment that 
includes advanced intelligent autonomous threats within the three components of either a 
system or cyber autonomous intelligent agent: the human component (as a designer, 
programmer, and/or partner); the system component (including hardware, firmware/software, 
and interface realms); and the algorithm component (including programming/coding, decision 
trees/matrices design, and machine learning areas). The focus of this initiative is the 
development of analysis and assessment methodologies based on a mathematical framework of 
complexity to address: (i) CEMA in the tactical environment; (ii) swarming munitions; (iii) 
autonomous and semi-autonomous systems; and (iv) human-intelligent agent interaction.
64
TPOC: Thomas Stadterman, 410-278-6295, thomas.j.stadterman.civ@mail.mil
b. KCI-AA-2: Visual, Interactive, Situational Analysis and Assessment 
The products of the Survivability, Lethality, and Vulnerability (SLV) analysis must be 
available in a timely manner, intuitively comprehensible, and demonstrably relevant to make 
them actionable. Implementing visual, interactive, situation-specific analysis will shorten 
development timelines, enable more informed acquisition decisions, improve operational 
training, and provide effective combatant decision aids. Collectively this will help insure 
dominance on the future battlefield. These tools will also help materiel designers, evaluators, 
and trainers to better equip and train the Soldier for this new challenge. 
This includes the development of an approach for visual (easy to understand), interactive 
(quickly available), situational (in the current location and relevant to the task at hand) analysis 
results to be produced. The speed and visual presentation will allow understanding of the 
results and how they are derived. The latter is important for establishing credibility, relevance 
and confidence. 
Through interaction, the user/operator can focus the simulation on relevant aspects to directly 
answer the questions being asked. This interaction focus naturally produces a “self-limiting” 
analysis process which eliminates unnecessary computation, yet produces detail where 
desirable. It allows broader questions to be addressed directly without sacrificing detail. This 
effort will create a goal oriented, cognition-driven analysis experience. This will provide 
Soldiers, materiel designers, evaluators and trainers with timely, comprehensible, relevant, and 
actionable information. It will make analysis products more accessible and valuable to the 
DoD community as a whole. 
Analysis domains could include one or more of the following: ballistics SLV, non-kinetic 
damage, cyber SLV, EW SLV, personnel survivability, and human terrain analysis algorithms. 
Meeting these various needs necessitates (1) Adoption of computational pipelines that take 
advantage of current computing hardware to execute needed analysis at interactive rates. (2) 
Coupling this with effective visual representations that facilitate cognitive understanding (3) 
Employment of computational steering techniques to allow simulations to be focused on the 
relevant aspects of the simulation. (4) Employment of a multi-disciplinary, collaborative 
approach to encourage participation by relevant experts in a variety of disciplines. 
TPOC: Lee Butler, (410) 278-9200, lee.a.butler6.civ@mail.mil. 
65
c. KCI-AA-3: Analysis and Assessment Methodology for Congested and Contested 
Operational Environments 
The subject KCI will develop the methodology for analyzing and assessing Army materiel in a 
contested and congested operational environment, and will identify the necessary capabilities 
to accomplish the aforementioned. The initiative will lay the groundwork for considering 
expanding complexity in the multi-domain battlespace and address emergent challenges 
associated with critical Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) priorities areas, such as 
hypersonics, directed-energy, artificial intelligence, and robotics. The effort will be further 
informed by participating in experimentation, prototype, and demonstration events critical to 
the success of the Army Futures Command. The future operational environments identified in 
TRADOC PAM 525-3-1, Win in a Complex World, includes operating in complex operational 
environments. Dense urban Environments (DuE) will be the most complex where cyberphysical-social complexity is most emergent.
 
Impacts on military operations will include limited or restricted lines of sight (LOS); 
congestion of structures, people, and traffic; constraints and bounds on electromagnetic effects 
and communications information (interconnectedness on a global scale); constraints on kinetic 
engagements, governance and control (including human sociocultural factors), target detection 
and acquisition, financial, and resource sourcing and allocation. These types of environments 
will induce unexpected synergistic effects and unanticipated emergence. Successful completion 
of this KCI will allow RDECOM to advance Survivability Lethality and Vulnerability Analysis 
and Assessment for congested and contested environments, thereby allowing the Army to be 
better advised in S&T, acquisition, and operational decisions.
The new methodologies will be used to assess systems slated for development in the Army 
Cross Functional Teams: Future Vertical Lift, Network C3 Intelligence, PNT, Synthetic 
Training Environment, Long Range Precision Fires, Next Generation Combat Vehicle, and 
Soldier Lethality. This KCI will involve the identification of specific phenomena, 
experimentation and data collection leading to development of relevant methodology for 
accelerating the production of requisite materiel that increases the lethality of our Soldiers. 
This KCI requires the participation of RDECOM support, and will require leveraging of 
products from all ARL Essential Research Programs, RDECOM acquisition programs, combat 
developers, the Army analyst community, and the Test and Evaluation community. 
TPOC: David Fordyce, (410) 278-6340, david.f.fordyce.civ@mail.mil, and Thomas Tenorio, 
(575) 678-6555, thomas.tenorio.civ@mail.mil. 
d. CCE-AA-1: Ballistics Survivability, Lethality and Vulnerability (SLV) 
The goal of the Ballistics SLV CCE is to leverage the science of threat-target interactions to 
identify and recommend techniques to reduce ballistic vulnerabilities, enhance system and 
complex target survivability, and ensure optimum effectiveness of the system in the full 
spectrum of battlefield environments and operations. Achieving the goal for this CCE enables a 
66
focus on discovering and mitigating SLV challenges in emerging technologies and in system 
designs throughout the acquisition life-cycle. Success in this endeavor requires the 
development, application, and sustainment of robust, efficient and accurate methodologies, 
tools and models to enable innovative analyses. Innovative scientific methodologies and tools 
are foundational to advancing our ability to identify, understand, quantify, and model the 
potential effects of both emerging and future weapons against fielded and developmental 
systems. 
Innovative methodologies, tools and analysis products that the AA Campaign develops will be 
transitioned, as appropriate, for use internally and to other DOD users who will be able to 
conduct complex analyses that meet their varied needs as new technologies mature and are 
applied to conceptual and developmental Army systems. The AA Campaign will provide 
subject matter expertise to perform early SLV analysis to “the left” for early SLV analysis and 
to “the right” for use in evaluation through the acquisition process as well as to operational 
users for mission planning purposes. 
The Ballistics AA CCE focuses on the following objectives that support the development of: 
i. Mature and scientifically rigorous products that enable ARL and other DoD users to 
interactively conduct complex SLV analysis throughout the acquisition timeline. This 
requires the development and application of computational techniques to deliver cuttingedge, modernized, faster, and higher resolution (in terms of both target geometry detail and 
the scale at which target-threat interactions are modelled) SLV analysis capabilities that will 
enhance core SLV models. 
ii. Robust, efficient and accurate methodology including approaches using or based on 
fully integrated high-fidelity multi-physics software–for estimating vehicle and occupant 
vulnerability to under-body blast threats. 
iii. Scientific tools, techniques and methods to enable lethality analyses of the effects from 
multiple ballistic impacts and from ballistic threats coupled with nontraditional directedenergy (DE) threat effects. 
iv. Vulnerability reduction techniques that can be applied to future technologies. 
v. Integrated ballistic SLV products and capabilities that provide a holistic understanding 
of the system or platform mission readiness. 
vi. Analytical and scientific methods for subterranean and megacity (SbT/MgC) 
environments that enable characterization of the response of building designs and construction 
methods to ballistic response of a city/infrastructure to ballistic threats impacts.
vii. Integrated ballistic SLV products and capabilities that expand efforts to illuminate 
multi-domain effects and answer multi-domain questions (e.g., combined EW, cyber, CEMA, 
and/or ballistics) in the same analysis.
67
viii. New techniques/methods to better display V/L data to complement cell plots to provide 
clearer, intuitive, higher-value delivery mechanisms for analysts, evaluators and assessors. 
TPOC: John Polesne, (410) 278-3353, john.t.polesne.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-AA-2: Cyber Survivability, Lethality and Vulnerability (SLV) 
Advancements in cloud computing and commercial-off-the-shelf technology and software 
increase the potential to add to or expand the number of unintended vulnerabilities in DoD 
systems and networks that adversaries can deny, disrupt, degrade or exploit. Advancements in 
nanotech computing, wireless, advanced robotics, autonomous, intelligent agent, cloud 
computing and other technologies as well as reliance on 3rd party commercial-off-the-shelf 
software will also increase the cyber-attack surface in DoD systems and networks. 
The AA CCE in Cybersecurity focuses on researching, developing and sustaining 
methodologies and analytical tools to plan and conduct cybersecurity assessments on 
technologies, weapon systems, information systems and networks. This sustained effort will 
enable the design, development and integration of secure technologies developed for or 
integrated into U.S. Army warfighting systems. To keep pace with the rapid evolution of cyber 
threats, U.S. military defensive cyber operations rely on cybersecurity assessments and 
analyses on technologies, systems and network architectures throughout the acquisition 
process. 
Continuous AA is critical to identifying and mitigating cyber vulnerabilities to ensure cyber 
resiliency across the acquisition enterprise. Cybersecurity is defined as the prevention of 
damage to, the protection of, and the restoration of computers, electronic communications 
systems, electronic communications services, wire communication, and electronic 
communication, including information contained therein, to ensure their availability, integrity, 
authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation. 
Nearly all defense systems incorporate IT in some form, and must be resilient from cyber 
adversaries. This means that cybersecurity applies to technologies used in weapons systems 
and platforms; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems; and information systems and networks. Cybersecurity 
is a critical priority for the DoD, and is a vital aspect of maintaining United States technical 
superiority. 
The AA CCE in Cybersecurity will focus on researching and developing cyber-attack 
techniques and tools to assess the security posture of emerging technologies; cyber 
vulnerability assessment and instrumentation tools leveraging advanced intelligent agents, data 
analytics, advanced visualization; malware reverse engineering and analysis; and security code 
analysis. 
TPOC: Anthony Castanares, (575) 678-3826, anthony.castanares.civ@mail.mil. 
68
f. CCE-AA-3: Electromagnetic Environment (EME) and Warfare 
The CCE in EW SLV focuses on research and analysis efforts to enable the development of 
tools, techniques, and methodologies to assess and evaluate the negative effects of adversarial 
attacks on Army electronic systems. Utilizing readily available commercial and Government 
off-the-shelf technologies, EW SLV investigations look for inherent susceptibilities that these 
and similar technologies may have when directed toward existing or future Army systems.
The A&A CCE in EW SLV will conduct research to enable analytical efforts investigating the
adverse effects and impacts on Army systems resulting from operations in a complex and 
dynamic battlefield Electromagnetic Environment (EME). Technological advancements in 
electronics, telecommunications, wireless technologies, sensors, lasers, and countermeasures 
that are commercially available are increasing unabated. The application of these technologies 
as both radio frequency electronic countermeasures (RFECM) and Electro-optical 
countermeasures (EOCM) to Army networks, communications, sensors, manned and unmanned 
platforms, and weapon systems is highly likely, given their advanced technical capabilities, 
general availability, and low costs compared to the Nation State sponsored technology 
developments in the past 30-40 years. Understanding how these technologies have the potential 
to adversely affect basic operation and mission effectiveness of Army systems will enable the 
Army to research, develop and apply mitigation strategies to counter these technologies and 
their associated effects. This research will enable the identification and mitigation of potential 
vulnerabilities to these technologies for both new and existing Army weapon, network, sensor, 
communication, and navigation systems. The A&A CCE in EW SLV enables the design and 
development of new, sophisticated, and cost effective analysis methods and tools for use during 
technology development, and throughout the acquisition life cycle, that can subject component, 
sub-system, and system level Army technologies to these stressing environments in systematic
manner in order to detect and mitigate potential vulnerabilities. Utilizing advanced techniques 
in EME modeling, generation, and measurement (including both the inherent EME and 
intentional EA), in coordination with modeling and instrumentation of Army systems, and using
laboratory, closed loop, hardware-in-the-loop (HWIL), anechoic chamber, and open-air range 
investigations; susceptibilities may be identified and mitigation techniques determined.
Strategic focus areas of the A&A CCE in EW include:
 Controlled environment (laboratory, HWIL, anechoic chamber) analysis development. 
 Counter-countermeasure development and analysis (threat EA mitigation techniques).
 Effects of emerging threats on autonomous systems (both airborne and ground based).
 Effects of emerging RFCM and EOCM threats on sensors (RF and EO/IR), manned and 
unmanned platforms, and Army weapon systems.
 Effects of emerging threats on position, navigation, and timing.
 Threat and commercial EME generation capabilities, signatures, and predictors of 
presence (threat technique generation and identification).
TPOC: Jose Gonzalez, (575) 678-5309, jose.m.gonzalez158.civ@mail.mil. 
 
69
g. CCE-AA-4: Personnel Survivability 
The Personnel Survivability CCE concentrates on the advancement of research and analysis to 
identify, understand, quantify, and model the effects of threat-target interactions on combat 
personnel, including injury assessment, performance, and operational effectiveness. Advances 
in research and experiments in the area of personnel survivability are foundational to the 
identification and development of scientific techniques to: 1) mitigate injury and enhance the 
survivability of Soldiers facing the wide range of battlefield threats, including ballistic, 
thermal, toxic substances, and less-than-lethal anti-personnel weapons; 2) enhance lethality of 
antipersonnel ballistic munitions; and 3) understand the effects of current and future weapons 
against personnel and protective systems. In addition to Soldier protection, Soldier 
survivability is assessed in terms of Soldier lethality, situational awareness, and the ability to 
effectively communicate and operate undetected when needed. 
This AA CCE in Personnel Survivability describes a systematic plan of multidisciplinary 
research that addresses critical questions about the nature of human injury mechanisms and the 
interactions of the Soldier with enabling technologies that provide protection, lethality, 
mobility, information, communication and concealment. It addresses adaptive behavior on the 
battlefield to increase survivability in a hostile environment and the development of 
methodologies and models to address critical questions surrounding these interactions and 
implications on Soldier survivability. 
ARL will apply these methodologies to identify the benefits and risks associated with new 
technologies prior to system design and integration supporting capabilities, such as Adaptive 
Soldier Architecture and trade space analysis of new individual Soldier and squad 
technologies. ARL will transition our products for use internally and to other DoD users to 
interactively conduct complex, credible analyses that meet their varied needs as these new 
technologies mature and are applied to conceptual and developmental Army systems. Using 
this approach we will extend our subject matter expertise in performing early SLV analysis to 
“the left” for early SLV analysis and to “the right” for use in evaluation through the acquisition 
process, as well as to operational users for mission planning purposes. 
The AA CCE on Personnel Survivability investigates and advances understanding and 
modeling the Soldier as a system to look at personnel survivability. Personnel survivability is 
characterized in terms of injury, degraded Soldier performance and capability with and without 
injury, and risks to long-term quality of life given injury. Because personnel survivability 
depends on enabling capabilities provided by a number of technologies, personnel survivability 
is studied in the context of the Soldier as a system, where Soldier lethality and the Soldiers’ 
ability to sense, communicate, and to operate undetected are also taken into consideration. 
The strategic approach includes: 
i. Fundamental and applied research projects to understand and quantify human 
survivability and performance to develop human injury and performance models. 
70
ii. Applied research to understand and characterize next-generation Soldier augmentation 
systems, protective systems, novel protective materials and future non-lethal and lethal systems 
that target precision, scalable effects and improved range, the ability to sense and communicate 
on the battlefield, and to operate undetected. 
iii. Development, maintenance, and application of SLV analysis capability that is 
adaptable, interoperable, and interactive; enables analyses of complex interactions in a 
mission/capabilities context, exploits emerging computation capabilities and can be used 
within a collaborative simulation. 
iv. Development, application, verification, validation, and transition of tools, techniques 
and methodologies for testing, analyzing, and evaluating Soldier performance and 
survivability. 
TPOC: Gregory Dietrich, (410) 278-2284, gregory.k.dietrich.civ@mail.mil. 
h. CCE-AA-5: Human Systems Integration (HSI) Modeling and Analysis 
The HSI Modeling and Analysis CCE focuses on developing and enhancing effective models 
and methodologies for predicting human, system of system, and mission capabilities throughout 
the acquisition cycle and supporting the Chief of Staff or the Army’s modernization priorities.
These efforts concentrate on identifying human capabilities and limitations within physical, 
perceptual, and cognitive areas to develop and inform methodologies; integrate the HSI 
domains; and develop technical, parametric system assessments.
The inclusion of physical, perceptual, and cognitive analyses to determine early, cost-effective 
insertion of HSI criteria, capabilities, requirements, and performance specifications within the 
acquisition process will optimize Soldier-System performance and reduce overall program cost 
at the system of systems level. It is important to continuously update relevant tools, techniques,
and methodologies to maintain their verification, validation, and utility for the tri-service user 
community. Application of these HSI methodologies will provide insight into the Soldiers’ 
capabilities and operation of systems, and will highlight issues and gaps that need to be 
addressed to achieve an overall balanced system design. The deployment and utilization of 
these tools, techniques, and methodologies must keep pace with increasingly advanced and 
shortened program acquisition schedules. Technologies for the development of rapid modeling 
tools and techniques, along with state-of-the-art immersive environments, will need to be 
pursued to accomplish these goals. Additionally, human performance data crucial to supporting 
development of acquisition requirements needed to assess future systems either do not exist, or 
are badly out of date and no longer apply to current system technologies. Studies and the 
resultant human performance data to support development of acquisition requirements, 
specifications, and early system analyses needs to be performed. Practical design and analysis 
tools need to be developed, deployed, and refined, so that HSI practitioners can make effective 
use of the human performance data to achieve the goal of optimizing Soldier-System 
performance and minimizing cost. 
71
The Analysis & Assessment CCE on Human System Modeling and Analysis investigates and 
advances the sciences relevant to two performance challenges: 1) identifying Soldier 
performance trade-offs on mission demands, environment, human characteristics, equipment,
and technology; and 2) understanding human factors that include sensing, perceptual and 
cognitive processes, ergonomics, biomechanics, and the tools and methodologies required to 
manage interaction within these areas and within the Soldiers’ combat environment. In 
developing and updating models resulting from an integrated HSI Analytic Tool Suite and 
techniques capable of predicting human, system, and mission capabilities, four research focus 
areas will be emphasized:
1. Identify, develop, and apply human performance measures of effectiveness and human 
figure modeling tools.
2. Integrate human factors, mathematics, statistics, and system engineering, to generate 
complex and critical task combinations that provide the necessary analytical data to 
support physical, perceptual, and cognitive workload assessment.
3. Develop a virtual environment to represent the Soldier as a system while considering 
physical effects, cognitive load, and demographic influences in the context of Soldier 
Systems Integration. 
4. Conduct research to support Capabilities Based Assessments, and develop requirements 
and performance specifications early on in the acquisition cycle to reduce cost. 
In performing system design analyses with integrated complex human performance behavior, 
the A&A CCE in Human Systems Modeling and Analysis aims to shape technology 
development and system design for the Army modernization.
TPOC: Jock Grynovicki, (410) 278-5956, jock.o.grynovicki.civ@mail.mil
i. CCE-AA-6: Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis 
The Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis CCE focuses on the improvement, application, and 
sustainment of research and techniques to model the performance of complex, adaptive systems 
at the engineering level to support the full range of force operating capabilities. These 
methodologies are crucial to the assessment of technology and system tradeoffs to illuminate 
and evaluate survivability aspects of competing capability packages and technologies.
The Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis CCE will enable analyses of the effects and impacts 
of the Army’s transformation in capabilities as a result of rapid, multi-faceted technological 
progress. Current Army analysis methodologies resulted from an era that contended with a 
much simpler set of analysis problems typically focused at the particular system or at the 
network levels. The Complex Adaptive Systems Analysis CCE will answer more complex 
questions, and thus provide the Army a significant leap forward in analysis techniques, 
methodologies, and mindsets by focusing at the area where all particular weapons, mission 
command, and other systems converge and merge their operations with the network levels, 
essentially at the larger combat formation echelons, company, battalion or brigade. For 
example, scientific advancements in information, computational, and human sciences have 
72
resulted in revolutionary advances in information processing, human-agent teaming, artificial 
intelligence and machine learning, distributed and cooperative engagements, and increasingly 
autonomous ground and air vehicles. The Army must identify, articulate, and develop new and
advanced analysis methods that can gauge how well the Army is taking advantage of new third 
offset capabilities, mitigating new threats posed by advancing adversary capabilities, and 
adapting to radically new contested environments. These methods will not be simplistic systemto-system comparisons, but must consider credible mission context and the environments in 
which the systems will operate with a complex, systems-of-systems environment. The 
proliferation of unmanned aerial systems, the challenges of dense urban environments, and the 
benefits and risks of manned-unmanned teaming all require enhanced analysis tools. Utilizing 
modern research in simulation, simulation languages, emerging mathematical techniques, and 
other advancements will improve capabilities to explore the continuum of military operations. 
The analysis methodologies will address the complexity inherent in interactions between 
systems, including humans and multiple, autonomous, and potentially intelligent learning 
machines. Analyses will also explore the rapid growth of adversary capabilities, in areas such as 
cyber and electronic warfare, due to advancing commercial technologies.
Strategic focus areas of the A&A CCE in Complex Adaptive Systems will incorporate:
1. Research from computational science and extramural basic research on advanced 
mathematical, statistical, and modeling and simulation techniques, such as predictive 
sciences, uncertainty quantification, advance computational algorithms, and data 
intensive techniques. 
2. Research from human sciences to explore the human dimension of future conflict, 
including human/machine interfaces and cognitive decision making processes.
3. Research from the information sciences regarding communication, processing, storage, 
and retrieval of information, for example research on digital RF technology.
TPOC: Arturo Revilla, (575) 678-3435, arturo.revilla.civ@mail.mil.
8. OTHER PROGRAMS: Visiting Scientist Program (VSP) 
The VSP supports short-term travel opportunities for foreign/ international scientists to the 
United States and to international conferences to socialize new S&T ideas or findings with the 
Army that support advancing basic research through collaboration. For additional information, 
contact the RDECOM International Technology Center at 
usarmy.blenheimcrescent.rdecom.mbx.rfec-atlantic@mail.mil. 
9. Translational Research Innovative Application Discovery (TRIAD) - This initiative 
is seeking research and development solutions in support of new technologies and translational 
research-based approaches that support the identification, alignment, and exploitation of 
applied research and technology to enable the Army of 2028 to be ready to deploy, fight, and 
win decisively against any adversary, anytime, and anywhere, in a joint, multi-domain, highintensity conflict, while simultaneously deterring others and maintaining its ability to conduct 
73
irregular warfare. Solutions sought in conjunction with this effort consist of innovationenabling technologies and approaches that will improve the Army’s ability to rapidly and costeffectively capitalize on global advances in the areas detailed below.
There are a number of technologies and approaches that touch more than one of the Army 
Modernization Priorities as well as other areas important to the Army. Advances in these areas 
may be highly disruptive since they could address multiple priorities or functions. Specialized 
capabilities and infrastructure needed to create, experiment with, validate and sustain long term 
research in these areas is of interest as well. Research areas of interest include, but are not 
limited to, the following:
a. Autonomous platforms – The Army is particularly interested in research in 
autonomous ground and air vehicles which must operate in open, urban and cluttered 
environments. Robotics and autonomous systems regardless of their missions require similar 
concepts and technologies including:
i. Ability to move in very cluttered, irregular, urban and underground terrains 
ii. Ability to move effectively in contested environments and survive attacks
i. Technologies to enable low electronic and physical profiles
ii. Techniques to allow operators to be trained quickly even for complex tasks
iii. Architectures to enable reprogrammable platforms under dynamic conditions
iv. Sensors to detect obscured targets and to characterize terrain obstacles
v. Autonomous ground and air structures, propulsion, and mobility components
vi. Technologies to significantly reduce logistical burdens 
b. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) - The Army is interested in 
AI/ML research in areas which can reduce the load on humans and improve overall 
performance in many areas. AI/ML research is needed in areas such as:
i. Autonomous, intelligent maneuver and behaviors of autonomous ground and air 
vehicles - object recognition, threat warning, etc.
ii. Ability to analyze large, diverse data sets to predict enemy intent and behaviors 
iii. Technologies to ensure robust, resilient and intelligent networking, cyber, electronic 
warfare and analysis of adversary signals
iv. Data analysis capabilities to engage with and exploit classified and unclassified sources
in order to produce enhanced intelligence products
v. Techniques to fuse data from disparate sources to improve a particular mission
c. Data visualization and synthetic environments – The Army is interested in research 
in research into concepts enabling improved situational awareness and the visualization and 
navigation of large data sets and to enhance training. Research is needed in the visualization of 
data in following areas:
i. Sensor data
ii. Large data sets
iii. Complex multi-source mode data sets 
iv. Novel visualization and synthetic environments approaches to enable improved training
v. Synthetic environments and networked instrumentation approaches for virtual-live 
validation of concepts and prototypes
74
d. Assured Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) – The Army is particularly 
interested in research in novel new PNT technologies which could be key enablers for many 
capabilities including autonomous vehicles, communications, and land navigation. Solutions 
that enable robust PNT on vehicles, Soldiers, munitions might include research on:
i. PNT technologies which operate reliably in GPS-degraded or denied areas which 
cannot be exploited by others
ii. Enhancements to commercial technologies to enable them to meet Army needs
iii. Robust security techniques for PNT at all levels
iv. PNT-enabled guidance and control
v. Algorithms and techniques to fuse data from multiple PNT sources to provide robust 
capabilities
e. Power generation and management technologies – The Army frequently must 
operate where power infrastructure is not available, on small vehicles or for individual 
Soldiers. Solutions that enable reliable power for vehicles, Soldiers, and munitions might 
include research on:
i. Novel new power sources
ii. Power management algorithms to optimize generation and usage
iii. Advanced low-power electronic technologies to reduce demand
iv. Compact power sources for small UAVs, robots, smart munitions
v. Technologies to understand, manage and reduce overall power use
f. Sensing – The Army is interested in having a detailed understanding of the 
environment and activities in areas it operates in. Research is needed in the areas of sensors 
and associated processing in order to:
i. Detect people, equipment, weapons, and any other object or action of interest 
ii. Detect all targets even when obscured
iii. Detect based upon, physical, behavioral, cyber or other signatures 
g. Communications & networks – It is critical the Army maintain secure, reliable 
communications for Soldiers, vehicles and at fixed locations even in austere environments with 
little or no fixed infrastructure. Research is needed in the areas related to following: 
i. Concepts and methodologies to enable robust networks
ii. Protocols
iii. Network interoperability including multi-national partners
iv. High efficiency components
h. Computation – The Army has a growing need for high performance computational 
capabilities to exploit large data sets and to perform complex AI/ML algorithms for many 
applications. Research is needed to improve networks and communications in the following 
areas: 
i. Throughput
ii. Power efficiency
iii. Edge computin