(d) Names of each investigator's own graduate or post-graduate advisors and advisees. 
NOTE: The information provided in (c) and (d) is used to help identify potential 
conflicts or bias in the selection of reviewers. 
(3) For the personnel categories of postdoctoral associates, other professionals, and students 
(research assistants), the proposal may include information on exceptional qualifications of 
these individuals that merit consideration in the evaluation of the proposal. 
(4) The biographical sketches are limited to three (3) pages per investigator and other individuals 
that merit consideration. 
viii. BIBLIOGRAPHY: A bibliography of pertinent literature is required. Citations must be 
complete (including full name of author(s), title, and location in the literature). 
ix. CURRENT AND PENDING 
SUPPORT: 
(1) All project support from whatever source must be listed. The list must include all projects 
requiring a portion of the PI's and other key personnel's time, even if they receive no salary 
support from the project(s). 
(2) The information should include, as a minimum: (i) the project/proposal title and brief 
description, (ii) the name and location of the organization or agency presently funding the work 
or requested to fund such work, (iii) the award amount or annual dollar volume of the effort, (iv) 
the period of performance, and (v) a breakdown of the time required of the PI and/or other key 
personnel. 
x. FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT, and OTHER RESOURCES: The applicant should include in 
the proposal a listing of facilities, equipment, and other resources already available to perform 
the research proposed. 
xi. PROPOSAL BUDGET (including DD Form 1861): 
(1) Each proposal must contain a budget for each year of support requested and a cumulative 
budget for the full term of requested support. Each budget year and the cumulative budget for 
the full term must be documented on ARO Form 99. ARO Form 99 may be reproduced, but you 
may not make substitutions in prescribed budget categories nor alter or rearrange the cost 
categories as they appear on the form. The proposal may request funds under any of the 
categories listed so long as the item is considered necessary to perform the proposed work and is 
not precluded by applicable cost principles. In addition to the forms, the budget proposal should 
include budget justification for each year. 
(2) A signed summary budget page must be included. The documentation pages should be 
titled "Budget Explanation Page" and numbered chronologically starting with the budget form. 
The need for each item should be explained clearly. 
90
(3) All cost data must be current and complete. Costs proposed must conform to the 
following principles and procedures: 
Institutions of Higher Education: 2 CFR Part 200 
 Nonprofit Organizations: 2 CFR Part 200 
For-Profit/Commercial Organizations: FAR Part 31, DFARS Part 231, FAR Subsection 
15.403-5, and DFARS Subsection 215.403-5. 
* For those nonprofit organizations specifically exempt from the provisions of Subpart E of 2 
CFR Part 200 (see 2 CFR 200.401(c)), FAR Part 31 and DFARS Part 231 shall apply. 
(4) Sample itemized budgets and the information they must include for a contract and for 
grants and cooperative agreements can be found at Section II.H of this BAA (Other 
Information). Before award of a cost-type contract or assistance instrument it must be 
established that an approved accounting system and financial management system exist. 
xii. APPENDICES: Some situations require that special information and supporting documents 
be included in the proposal before funding can be approved. Such information and 
documentation should be included by appendix to the proposal. 
(1) To evaluate compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 
A Section 1681 Et. Seq.), the Department of Defense is collecting certain demographic 
and career information to be able to assess the success rates of women who are proposed 
for key roles in applications in STEM disciplines. To enable this assessment, each 
application must include the following forms completed as indicated.
(A)Research and Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) form:
The Degree Type and Degree Year fields on the Research and Related Senior/Key Person 
Profile (Expanded) form will be used by DoD as the source for career information. In 
addition to the required fields on the form, applicants must complete these two fields for all 
individuals that are identified as having the project role of PD/PI or Co-PD/PI on the form. 
Additional senior/key persons can be added by selecting the “Next Person” button.
(B) Research and Related Personal Data form: 
This form will be used by DoD as the source of demographic information, such as gender, 
race, ethnicity, and disability information for the Project Director/Principal Investigator and 
all other persons identified as Co-Project Director(s)/Co-Principal Investigator(s). Each 
application must include this form with the name fields of the Project Director/Principal 
Investigator or any Co-Project Director(s)/Co-Principal Investigator(s) completed; however, 
provision of the demographic information in the form is voluntary. If completing the form 
for multiple individuals, each Co-Project Director/Co-Principal Investigator can be added by 
selecting the “Next Person” button. The demographic information, if provided, will be used 
for statistical purposed only and will not be made available to merit reviewers. Applicants 
91
who do not wish to provide some or all of the information should check or select the “Do 
not wish to provide” option. 
f. Submission of Proposals
Proposals must be submitted by email (only when a contract is requested) or through
Grants.gov. Proposals must be submitted through the applicant’s organizational office having 
responsibility for Government business relations. All signatures must be that of an official 
authorized to commit the organization in business and financial affairs. 
Proposal content requirements remain the same for both email and Grants.gov submission. 
i. EMAIL SUBMISSION (only when a Contract is the requested form of agreement): 
(1) Proposals requesting a Contract may be emailed directly to:
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. Do not email full proposals to the TPOC. All emailed 
proposals must adhere to the format requirements and contain the information outlined in 
Section II.D.2.e of this BAA. 
(2) The applicant must include with its proposal submission the representations required by 
Section II.F.2.a.i of this BAA. The representations must include applicant point of contact 
(POC) information and be signed by an authorized representative. Note: If the applicant’s 
SAM Representations and Certifications include its response to the representations a hard copy 
representation is not required with proposal submission. 
(3) All forms requiring signature must be completed, printed, signed, and scanned into a PDF 
document. All documents must be combined into a single PDF formatted file to be attached to 
the email. 
(4) Proposal documents (excluding required forms) must use the following format: 
• Page Size – 8 ½ x 11 inches 
• Margins – 1 inch 
• Spacing – single 
• Font – Times New Roman, 12 point, single-sided pages 
ii. GRANTS.GOV SUBMISSION (For all proposals requesting Assistance. Proposals 
requesting a Contract may be submitted either via Grants.gov or email) 
(1) Grants.gov Registration (See Section II.D.2.g below) must be accomplished prior to 
application submission in Grants.gov. 
NOTE: All web links referenced in this section are subject to change by Grants.gov and may not 
be updated here. 
92
(2) Specific forms are required for submission of a proposal. The forms are contained in the 
Application Package available through the Grants.gov application process. To access these 
materials, go to http://www.grants.gov, select "Apply for Grants,” and then select " Get 
Application Package." A Grant Application Package and Application Instructions are 
available through the Grants.Gov Apply portal under CFDA Number 12.431/Funding 
Opportunity Number W911NF-17-S-0003. Select “Apply” and then “Apply Now Using 
Workspace.” 
*NOTE: Effective 31 December 2017, the legacy PDF application package on Grants.gov will be 
retired and applicants must apply online at Grants.gov using the application Workspace. For 
access to complete instructions on how to apply for opportunities using Workspace refer to:
https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/workspace-overview.html. 
The following documents are mandatory: (1) Application for Federal Assistance (R&R) (SF 424 
(R&R)), and (4) Attachments form. 
(3) The SF 424 (R&R) form is to be used as the cover page for all proposals submitted via 
Grants.gov. The SF 424 (R&R) must be fully completed. Authorized Organization 
Representative (AOR) usernames and passwords serve as “electronic signatures” when your 
organization submits applications through Grants.gov. By using the SF 424 (R&R), proposers 
are providing the certification required by 32 CFR Part 28 regarding lobbying (see Section 
II.F.2.a.ii of this BAA). Block 11, “Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project,” must reference the 
research topic area being addressed in the effort by identifying the specific paragraph from 
Section II.A of this BAA. 
(4) The Attachments form must contain the documents outlined in Section II.D.2.e.ii entitled 
“Table of Contents”. All documents must be combined into separate and single PDF 
formatted files using the Table of Contents names. Include “W911NF-17-S-0003” in the title 
so the proposal will be distinguished from other BAA submissions and upload each document 
to the mandatory Attachments form. 
(5) The applicant must include with its proposal submission the representations required by 
Section II.F.2.a.ii of this BAA. The representations must include applicant POC information 
and be signed by an authorized representative. Attach the representations document to an 
available field within the Attachments form. Note: If the applicant’s SAM Representations 
and Certifications include its response to the representations a hard copy representation is not 
required with proposal submission. 
(6) The Grants.gov User Guide at: 
http://www.grants.gov/help/html/help/index.htm?callingApp=custom#t=Get_Started%2FGet_
Sta rted.htm will assist AORs in the application process. Remember that you must open and 
complete the Application for Federal Assistance (R&R) (SF 424 (R&R)) first, as this form 
will automatically populate data fields in other forms. If you encounter any problems, contact 
customer support at 1-800-518-4726 or at support@grants.gov. If you forget your user name 
93
or password, follow the instructions provided in the Credential Provider tutorial. Tutorials 
may be printed by right-clicking on the tutorial and selecting “Print”. 
(7) As it is possible for Grants.gov to reject the proposal during this process, it is strongly 
recommended that proposals be uploaded at least two days before any established deadline in 
the BAA so that they will not be received late and be ineligible for award consideration. It is 
also recommended to start uploading proposals at least two days before the deadline to plan 
ahead for any potential technical and/or input problems involving the applicant’s own 
equipment. 
g. Grants.gov Registration
i. Each organization that desires to submit applications via Grants.Gov must complete a onetime registration. There are several one-time actions your organization must complete in order to 
submit applications through Grants.gov (e.g., obtain a Unique Entity Identifier, register with the 
SAM, register with the credential provider, register with Grants.gov and obtain approval for an 
AOR to submit applications on behalf of the organization). To register please see:
http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/organization-registration.html
ii. Please note the registration process for an Organization or an Individual can take between 
three to five business days or as long as four weeks if all steps are not completed in a timely 
manner. 
iii. Questions relating to the registration process, system requirements, how an application 
form works, or the submittal process should be directed to Grants.gov at 1-800-518-4726 or 
support@grants.gov. 
3. Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management (SAM)
a. Each applicant (unless the applicant is an individual or Federal awarding agency that is 
exempt from those requirements under 2 CFR 25.110(b) or (c), or has an exemption approved 
by the Federal awarding agency under 2 CFR 25.110(d)) is required to: 
i. Be registered in SAM prior to submitting its application; ii. Provide a valid 
unique entity identifier (formerly DUNS) in its application; and iii. Maintain an 
active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an 
active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal 
awarding agency. 
b. The Federal awarding agency may not make a Federal award to an applicant until the 
applicant has complied with all applicable unique entity identifier and SAM requirements. If an 
applicant has not fully complied with the requirements by the time the Federal awarding agency 
is ready to make a Federal award, the Federal awarding agency may determine that the 
applicant is not qualified to receive a Federal award and use that determination as a basis for 
making a Federal award to another applicant. 
94
4. Submission Dates and Times 
a. Proposals 
Proposals will be considered until and including the closing date of this announcement (see cover 
page of this announcement for opening/closing dates), except for special programs identified in 
this BAA that may announce specific opening/closing dates. Proposals submitted after the 
closing date will not be considered by the Government. 
b. Proposal Receipt Notices
i. Grants.gov: After a proposal is submitted to Grants.gov, the AOR will receive a series of 
three emails from Grants.gov. The first two emails will be received within 24 to 48 hours after 
submission. The first email will confirm time of receipt of the proposal by the Grants.gov system 
and the second will indicate that the proposal has either been successfully validated by the 
system prior to transmission to the grantor agency or has been rejected due to errors. A third 
email will be received once the grantor agency has confirmed receipt of the proposal. Reference 
the Grants.gov User Guide at:
http://www.grants.gov/help/html/help/index.htm?callingApp=custom#t=Get_Started%2FGet_Sta
r ted.htm for information on how to track your application package. 
For the purposes of this BAA, an applicant’s proposal is not considered received by ARL until 
the AOR receives email #3. 
ii. Email Submission: After a proposal is submitted to usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil, 
the AOR will receive an email confirming time of receipt of the proposal by the grantor agency. 
For the purposes of this BAA, an applicant’s proposal is not considered received by the grantor 
agency until the AOR receives the email confirming receipt of the proposal. 
 
5. Intergovernmental Review
Not Applicable 
6. Funding Restrictions
There are no specific funding restrictions associated with this BAA (e.g. direct costs, indirect 
costs, etc.). 
7. Other Submission Requirements
a. Information to Be Requested from Successful Applicants: Applicants whose proposals 
are accepted for funding will be contacted before award to provide additional information 
required for award. The required information may include requests to clarifying budget 
explanations, representations, certifications, and some technical aspects. 
95
b. For Contracts Only: Performance Work Statements (PWS). Prior to award the 
Contracting Officer may request that the contractor submit a PWS for the effort to be 
performed, which will be incorporated into the contract at the time of award. 
(End of Section) 
E. Application Review Information
1. Criteria
Proposals submitted in response to this BAA will be evaluated using the factors listed below (in 
descending order of importance): 
a. The overall scientific and/or technical merits of the proposal. 
b. The potential contributions of the effort to the Army mission and the extent to which the 
research effort will contribute to balancing the overall ARL research program. 
c. The applicant's capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques, or unique combinations 
of these, which are integral factors for achieving the proposed objectives. 
d. The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed PI, team leader, or other key 
personnel who are critical to achievement of the proposed objectives. 
e. The applicant's record of past performance. 
**NOTE: Cost sharing will not be considered in the evaluation. 
2. Review and Selection Process
a. Upon receipt of a proposal, the ARL staff will perform an initial review of its scientific 
merit and potential contribution to the Army mission, and also determine if funds are expected to 
be available for the effort. Proposals not considered having sufficient scientific merit or relevance 
to the Army's needs, or those in areas for which funds are not expected to be available, may not 
receive further review. 
b. All proposals are treated as procurement sensitive and are disclosed only for the purpose 
of evaluation. Proposals not declined as a result of an initial review will be subject to a peer 
review by highly qualified scientists. While the applicant may restrict the evaluation to scientists 
from within the Government, to do so may prevent review of the proposal by those most 
qualified in the field of research covered by the proposal. The applicant must indicate on the 
96
appropriate proposal form (Form 52 or 52A) any limitation to be placed on disclosure of 
information contained in the proposal. 
c. Each proposal will be evaluated based on all the evaluation criteria in Section II.E.1 of 
this BAA rather than against other proposals for research in the same general area. 
d. Upon completion of an evaluation against the criteria in Section II.E.1, a proposal 
selected for possible award will be analyzed for the realism and reasonableness of costs. 
Proposal costs must be determined reasonable and realistic before the Government can make an 
award. 
3. Recipient Qualification
a. Grant, Cooperative Agreement, and TIA Proposals: 
i. The Grants Officer is responsible for determining a recipient’s qualification prior to 
award. In general, a Grants Officer will award grants or cooperative agreements only to 
qualified recipients that meet the standards at 32 CFR 22.415. To be qualified, a potential 
recipient must: 
(1) Have the management capability and adequate financial and technical resources, given 
those that would be made available through the grant or cooperative agreement, to 
execute the program of activities envisioned under the grant or cooperative agreement; 
(2) Have a satisfactory record of executing such programs or activities (if a prior recipient 
of an award); 
(3) Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics; and 
(4) Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement under 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Applicants are requested to provide information with proposal submissions to assist the Grants 
Officer’s evaluation of recipient qualification. 
ii. In accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance in parts 180 
and 200 of Title 2, CFR, it is DoD policy that DoD Components must report and use integrity 
and performance information in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information 
System (FAPIIS), or any successor system designated by OMB, concerning grants, cooperative 
agreements, and TIAs as follows: 
If the total Federal share will be greater than the simplified acquisition threshold on any Federal 
award under a notice of funding opportunity (see 2 CFR 200.88 Simplified Acquisition 
Threshold): 
97
(1) The Federal awarding agency, prior to making a Federal award with a total amount of 
Federal share greater than the simplified acquisition threshold, will review and 
consider any information about the applicant that is in the designated integrity and 
performance system accessible through SAM (currently FAPIIS) (see 41 U.S.C. 
2313); 
(2) An applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and 
performance systems accessible through SAM and comment on any information about 
itself that a Federal awarding agency previously entered and is currently in the 
designated integrity and performance system accessible through SAM; 
(3) The Federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in 
addition to the other information in the designated integrity and performance system, 
in making a judgment about the applicant's integrity, business ethics, and record of 
performance under Federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by 
applicants as described in 2 CFR 200.205 Federal awarding agency review of risk 
posed by applicants. 
b. Contract Proposals: 
i. Contracts shall be awarded to responsible prospective contractors only. See FAR 
9.104-1 for a listing of the general standards against which an applicant will be assessed to 
determine responsibility. 
Applicants are requested to provide information with proposal submission to assist the 
Contracting Officer’s evaluation of responsibility. 
ii. FAPIIS will be checked prior to making an award. The web address is: 
https://www.fapiis.gov/fapiis/index.action. The applicant representing the entity may 
comment in this system on any information about the entity that a federal government official 
entered. The information in FAPIIS will be used in making a judgment about the entity’s 
integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under Federal awards that may affect the 
official’s determination that the applicant is qualified to receive an award. 
(End of Section) 
F. Award Administration Information
1. Award Notices
Applicants whose proposals are recommended for award may be contacted by a Contract/Grant 
Specialist to discuss additional information required for award. This may include representations 
98
and certifications, revised budgets or budget explanations, certificate of current cost or pricing 
data, subcontracting plan for small businesses, and/or other information as applicable to the 
proposed award. The anticipated start date will be determined at that time. 
The notification email must not be regarded as an authorization to commit or expend funds. The 
Government is not obligated to provide any funding until a Government Contracting/ Grants 
Officer signs the award document. 
The award document signed by the Government Contracting/Grants Officer is the official and 
authorizing award instrument. The authorizing award instrument, signed by the Contracting/ 
Grants Officer, will be emailed to the PI and AOR. 
2. Administrative and National Policy Requirements
a. Required Representations and Certifications: 
i. Contract Proposals:
(1) Representations and certifications shall be completed by successful applicants prior to award. 
FAR Online Representations and Certifications are to be completed through SAM at 
https://www.SAM.gov. As appropriate, DFARS and contract-specific certification packages 
will be provided to the contractor for completion prior to award. 
(2) FAR 52.203-18, PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT REQUIRE 
CERTAIN CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS OR STATEMENTS—REPRESENTATION 
(JAN 2017) 
(a) Definition. As used in this provision--
“Internal confidentiality agreement or statement”, “subcontract”, and “subcontractor”, are 
defined in the clause at 52.203-19, Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality 
Agreements or Statements. 
(b) In accordance with section 743 of Division E, Title VII, of the Consolidated and Further 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235) and its successor provisions in 
subsequent appropriations acts (and as extended in continuing resolutions), Government 
agencies are not permitted to use funds appropriated (or otherwise made available) for 
contracts with an entity that requires employees or subcontractors of such entity seeking to 
report waste, fraud, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements 
prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from lawfully 
reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement 
representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information. 
(c) The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this provision does not contravene requirements 
applicable to SF 312, (Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement), Form 4414 
99
(Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure Agreement), or any other form 
issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure of classified 
information. 
(d) Representation. By submission of its offer, the applicant represents that it will not require 
its employees or subcontractors to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements 
or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or subcontractors from 
lawfully reporting waste, fraud, or abuse related to the performance of a Government 
contract to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal 
department or agency authorized to receive such information (e.g., agency Office of the 
Inspector General). 
(3) FAR 52.209-11, REPRESENTATION BY CORPORATIONS REGARDING 
DELINQUENT TAX LIABILITY OR A FELONY CONVICTION UNDER FEDERAL LAW 
(FEB 2016) 
As required by sections 744 and 745 of Division E of the Consolidated and Further 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Pub. L 113-235), and similar provisions, if 
contained in subsequent appropriations acts, the Government will not enter into a contract 
with any corporation that--
Has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial 
and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not 
being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority 
responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of 
the unpaid tax liability, unless an agency has considered suspension or debarment of 
the corporation and made a determination that suspension or debarment is not 
necessary to protect the interests of the Government; or 
Was convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the 
preceding 24 months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, 
unless an agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and 
made a determination that this action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government. 
The applicant represents that—
It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been 
exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to 
an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability; and 
It is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation 
under a Federal law within the preceding 24 months.
100
ii. Grant and Cooperative Agreement Proposals: 
(1) Grant awards greater than $100,000 require a certification of compliance with a national 
policy mandate concerning lobbying. Statutes and Government-wide regulations require the 
certification to be submitted prior to award. When submitting your grant through Grants.gov, by 
completing blocks 18 and 19 of the SF 424 (R&R) Form, the grant applicant is providing the 
certification on lobbying required by 32 CFR Part 28; otherwise a copy signed by the AOR must 
be provided. Below is the required certification: 
CERTIFICATION AT APPENDIX A TO 32 CFR PART 28 REGARDING 
LOBBYING: Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements the 
undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: 
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of 
the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or 
employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, 
or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any 
Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the 
entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, 
amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative 
agreement. 
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid 
to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any 
agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee 
of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or 
cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit SF-LLL, 
"Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in accordance with its instructions. 
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in 
the award documents for all sub-awards at all tiers (including subcontracts, sub-grants, 
and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. 
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when 
this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite 
for making or entering into this transaction imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Any person who 
fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than 
$10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure. 
(2) In accordance with Continuing Appropriations Act, 2017 (Pub. L. 114-223), or any other 
Act that extends to fiscal year (FY) 2017 funds the same prohibitions as contained in section 743, 
division E, title VII, of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Pub. L. 114-113), none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by that or any other Act may be made available 
for a grant or cooperative agreement with an entity that requires its employees or contractors 
101
seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements 
prohibiting or otherwise restricting those employees or contractors from lawfully reporting that 
waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a 
Federal department or agency authorized to receive the information.
PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT REQUIRED CERTAIN 
INTERNAL CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS – REPRESENTATION 
Agreement with the representation below will be affirmed by checking the “I agree” 
box in block 17 of the SF424 (R&R) as part of the electronic proposal submitted via 
Grants.gov. The representation reads as follows: 
By submission of its proposal or application, the applicant represents that it does not 
require any of its employees, contractors, or sub-recipients seeking to report fraud, 
waste, or abuse to sign or comply with internal confidentiality agreements or 
statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting those employees, contractors, subrecipients from lawfully reporting that waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated 
investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information. 
*Note that: Section 743 states that it does not contravene requirements applicable to SF 
312, Form 4414, or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing 
the nondisclosure of classified information. 
(3) Recipients are required to submit the following representation with the application package 
IAW the instructions at Section II.D.2.f.ii of this BAA: 
REPRESENTATIONS UNDER DOD ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS: 
APPROPRIATIONS PROVISIONS ON TAX DELINQUENCY AND FELONY 
CONVICTIONS 
The applicant is ( ) is not ( ) a “Corporation” meaning any entity, including any 
institution of higher education, other nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity that has 
filed articles of incorporation. 
If the applicant is a “Corporation” please complete the following representations: 
(a) The applicant represents that it is ( ) is not ( ) a corporation that has any unpaid 
Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative 
remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax 
liability. 
102
(b) The applicant represents that it is ( ) is not ( ) is not a corporation that was 
convicted of a criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 
months. 
NOTE: If an applicant responds in the affirmative to either of the above representations, 
the applicant is ineligible to receive an award unless the agency suspension and 
debarment official (SDO) has considered suspension or debarment and determined that 
further action is not required to protect the Government’s interests. The applicant 
therefore should provide information about its tax liability or conviction to the agency’s 
SDO as soon as it can do so, to facilitate completion of the required considerations 
before award decisions are made. 
b. Policy Requirements: 
The following list provides notable national policy requirements that may be applicable to an 
award. NOTE: The following is not an all-inclusive list of policy requirements. For assistance 
awards, refer to the DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions at 
http://www.onr.navy.mil/Contracts-Grants/submit-proposal/grants-proposal/grantstermsconditions.aspx for additional national policy requirements that may apply. For contract 
awards, appropriate clauses will be added to award documents. 
i. PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: 
(a) The recipient must protect the rights and welfare of individuals who participate as human 
subjects in research under this award and comply with the requirements at 32 CFR part 219, 
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3216.02, 10 U.S.C. 980, and when applicable, Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations. 
 
(b) The recipient must not begin performance of research involving human subjects, also 
known as human subjects research (HSR), that is covered under 32 CFR part 219, or that meets 
exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), until you receive a formal notification of approval 
from a DoD Human Research Protection Official (HRPO). Approval to perform HSR under this 
award is received after the HRPO has performed a review of the recipient’s documentation of 
planned HSR activities and has officially furnished a concurrence with the recipient’s 
determination as presented in the documentation. 
(c) In order for the HRPO to accomplish this concurrence review, the recipient must provide 
sufficient documentation to enable his or her assessment as follows: 
(i) If the HSR meets an exemption criteria under 32 CFR 219.101(b), the documentation 
must include a citation of the exemption category under 32 CFR 219.101(b) and a rationale 
statement. 
103
(ii) If the recipient’s activity is determined as “non-exempt research involving human 
subjects”, the documentation must include: 
- Assurance of Compliance (i.e., Department of Health and Human Services Office for 
Human Research Protections (OHRP) Federal Wide Assurance (FWA)) appropriate for the 
scope of work or program plan; and 
- Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, as well as all documentation reviewed by the 
IRB to make their determination. 
(d) The HRPO retains final judgment on what activities constitute HSR, whether an exempt 
category applies, whether the risk determination is appropriate, and whether the planned HSR 
activities comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. 
(e) The recipient must notify the HRPO immediately of any suspensions or terminations of the 
Assurance of Compliance. 
(f) DoD staff, consultants, and advisory groups may independently review and inspect the 
recipient’s research and research procedures involving human subjects and, based on such 
findings, DoD may prohibit research that presents unacceptable hazards or otherwise fails to 
comply with DoD requirements. 
(g) Definitions for terms used in this article are found in DoDI 3216.02. 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clauses shall be added to the award. 
ii. ANIMAL USE: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: 
(a) Prior to initiating any animal work under the award, the recipient must: 
 
(i) Register the recipient’s research, development, test, and evaluation or training facility with 
the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR section 2.30, 
unless otherwise exempt from this requirement by meeting the conditions in 7 U.S.C. 2136 
and 9 CFR parts 1-4 for the duration of the activity. 
(ii) Have the recipient’s proposed animal use approved in accordance with DoDI 3216.01, Use 
of Animals in DoD Programs by a DoD Component Headquarters Oversight Office. 
(iii) Furnish evidence of such registration and approval to the grants officer. 
(b) The recipient must make the animals on which the research is being conducted, and all 
premises, facilities, vehicles, equipment, and records that support animal care and use 
104
available during business hours and at other times mutually agreeable to the recipient, the 
United States 
Department of Agriculture Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 
(USDA/APHIS) representative, personnel representing the DoD component oversight offices, as 
well as the grants officer, to ascertain that the recipient is compliant with 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 
CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01. 
(c) The recipient’s care and use of animals must conform with the pertinent laws of the United 
States, regulations of the Department of Agriculture, and regulations, policies, and procedures 
of the DoD (see 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01). 
(d) The recipient must acquire animals in accordance with DoDI 3216.01. 
(2) Contracts: The appropriate clauses shall be added to the award. 
iii. BIOLOGICAL SAFETY PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS: 
(1) Assistance Instruments and Contracts: Awards may be subject to biological safety program 
requirements IAW: 
(a) Army Regulation (AR) 385-10, Chapter 20 
http://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/r385_10.pdf
(b) Department of Army (DA) PAM 385-69 
http://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/p385_69.pdf
(c) DoD Manual 6055.18-M, Enclosure 4, Section 13 
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/605518m.pdf
(d) DoD Executive Agent List (see item 3) 
http://www.oaa.army.mil/aea_functions.aspx
iv. MILITARY RECRUITING: 
(1) Assistance Instruments: This is to notify potential applicants that each grant or cooperative 
agreement awarded under this announcement to an institution of higher education must include 
the following term and condition: 
(a) As a condition for receiving funds available to the DoD under this award, you agree that you 
are not an institution of higher education (as defined in 32 CFR part 216) that has a policy or 
practice that either prohibits, or in effect prevents: