v. Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) research is focused on determining and quantifying 
simulations performance as intended, considering the range of conditions where models and 
simulations reproduce observed behavior within acceptable tolerances and established
confidence levels. UQ research is concerned with novel and efficient concepts and 
methodologies for high-fidelity assessment on the level of agreement in sets of models relative 
to input and output data, as well as the variations in interdependent models due to various 
physics, mathematical, and numerical assumptions. UQ methodologies, integrated with data 
sciences and machine learning will enable tools for: (1) identifying deficiencies in simulations; 
(2) setting guidelines for adequacy of computational results; (3) exploring the impact of known 
variability and uncertainty of input; and (4) control of adaptive algorithms to achieve specified 
levels of accuracy to aid decisions from design to operational planning. 
v. Multi-scale Modeling focuses on the development of new systems and models of 
complex phenomena by significantly reducing development time and evaluation costs. This 
goal can be achieved with: 1) high-fidelity physical models at multiple scales; and 2) 
computational methodologies (numerical methods and associated algorithms) to enable rapid 
creation of new high-fidelity multi-scale computer models of complex systems capable of 
utilizing modern extreme-scale computing. 
The success of multi-scale modeling hinges on the ability to combine at-scale models into a 
multi-scale model. However, few numerical methodologies and associated algorithms have 
been developed so far to enable such scale-bridging. Moreover, many at-scale models are 
extremely demanding computationally and render any multi-scale model utilizing them 
unsuitable for practical applications. While surrogate modeling allows reduction of this 
computational cost, most methodologies for surrogate modeling are global, and thus are 
characterized by a relatively high cost. New adaptive, non-local surrogate modeling 
methodologies are needed, which can bring the computational cost to tractable levels. Finally, 
at-scale models are frequently endowed with uncertainty due to various sources, such as natural 
fluctuations, model parameters, or model form. This uncertainty and natural variability must 
be consistently incorporated into multi-scale computer models in order to enable computational 
design. 
(1) Four main areas will be the focus of the effort in multi-scale CS: 
(a) Hierarchical Multi-scale Framework 
(b) Discrete Dislocation Dynamics 
(c) Phonon and Electron Transport 
(d) Density Functional Theory 
(2) The strategic approach to these focus areas include: 
(a) Shortened development time and evaluation costs of novel energetic materials by 
allowing macro-scale response to be accurately predicted directly from composition and 
chemical reactivity at the molecular level. 
10
(b) Development of novel materials for battery applications through expedited 
computational evaluation of potential compositions. 
(c) Advanced Soldier protective equipment and vehicle occupant protection through 
accurate multi-scale prediction of skeletal fracture in comprehensive analysis and 
design simulations. 
(d) Accelerated material development for Army applications enabled by high-fidelity 
multi-scale simulation methodologies (Materials by Design). 
vi. Interdisciplinary Sciences research includes the development of fully validated, large-scale 
parallel software, which will simulate multi-scale, complex systems in multiple technology 
areas. This software will integrate diverse temporal and spatial scale models, some running 
concurrently for highly coupled system components, and others sequentially, as dictated by the 
system functionality. The highly coupled model components may be separate executables, 
running at different time scales and potentially on different computational platforms. Some of 
the components may be commercial or third-party software packages where only the 
executable is available. The data exchange and particulars of the execution would be 
transparent to the user. Multi-scale analysis and material by design are supported through this 
scalable computational methodologies and software. The system software would be integrated 
with optimization algorithms and capabilities for determining design sensitivity and UQ. Use 
of reduced order models will provide varying levels of computational speed and fidelity for 
different needs, and will facilitate coupling through reduced data sets across distinct physical 
representations of system components. 
TPOC: Ernest Chin, (410) 306-1988, ernest.s.chin.civ@mail.mil, and Jarek Knap, (410) 
2780420, jaroslaw.knap.civ@mail.mil. 
d. Computing Sciences for Advanced and Unconventional Computing Architectures 
Focuses on understanding and exploiting the fundamental aspects of hardware and associated 
system software for emergent and future computing architectures for mobile, scientific, and 
data intensive applications. Computing systems include both mobile and fixed/virtual 
architectures optimized for fast communications, low power consumption, large hierarchical 
memory, novel and robust algorithms, high resiliency, and HPC networking. Computing 
science is focused on developing the understanding, tools, techniques, and methodologies to 
fully exploit emerging computing architectures through realization efficient parallel task 
algorithms and take advantage of memory hierarchies. These efforts are expected to greatly 
reduce the time required to re-state algorithms in parallel form and with correct implementation 
faults and bugs. 
i. Programming Languages and Processes research is focused on exploring research 
activities on adaptable operating system, behavioral programming languages, domain specific 
11
languages (DSL), and novel libraries. DSL’s will raise the level of abstraction of the codes that 
programmers write, both to maintain portability across increasingly diverse hardware and to 
give the language implementation more scope for choosing the best route to map a program on 
to the most appropriate computing hardware. 
ii. Programming Environments (PE) research is focused on simplifying HPC processes 
associated with application analysis and software development. Application enabling and data 
sharing environments are focused on assisting scientific software developers, scientists and 
engineers, and software users with ease of using evolving computing systems for data intensive 
applications. Disparate data from scientific simulations, experimental, sensors, and 
observations pose research challenges in making seamless integration with evolving computing 
systems. 
iii. Software integration is focused on using components of different application software,
and integrating software modules to achieve a different functionality. One approach to achieve 
better software, more quickly and at lower cost, is to adopt a design process that is based on 
systematic software reuse. The evolution of computing infrastructure is creating new 
challenges, ranging from energy-aware software development to software for massively 
parallel and distributed systems. 
iv. Distributed Computing-Based Algorithms for Quantum Networks and Quantum Control 
addresses one of the key roles of HPC for the Army: rapid processing of data that is obtained 
from sources distributed over different platforms and locations. Exploiting quantum 
phenomena has the potential to harness distributed information in powerful new ways, and may 
also allow distributed processing of such information well beyond present capabilities. The 
goal of this effort is to: 
(1) Understand how to design and control quantum networks to harness and process 
information from distributed sources, and how to do so securely and efficiently. 
(2) Explore how quantum networks may gain an advantage over traditional parallel 
processing by applying distributed operations to distributed information. An important enabler 
for this research is the ability to model and simulate quantum networks. A significant part of 
this effort is therefore devoted to developing efficient methods for modeling and simulating 
open quantum systems and networks of these systems. 
v. Co-Design of Algorithms and Hardware for Unconventional Computing Architectures 
research addresses the issues associated with advanced computing architectures that are 
becoming more complex with memory hierarchies, which are laid out as parallel processors 
with multiple processing cores. To harness the computational capability of these advanced 
computing architectures, new algorithms and software development paradigms are needed,
especially for the future Army S&T campaigns. In addition to petascale and beyond capability, 
there is a need for new architectures and algorithms, such as non-von Neumann systems like 
neuromorphic and quantum computing. Key goals include the development of algorithms and 
12
techniques to address power, performance, portability, and efficiency through the construction 
of domain specific architectures, scalable algorithms, and programming models. 
Representative thrust areas include: 
(1) Threaded message passing to allow for massive on-core RISC (reduced instruction set 
computer) -based architecture parallelism.
(2) Compiler-based software deployment, on neuromorphic architectures, focusing on a 
single control flow construct as a baseline.
(3) 3D rendering coupled with 3D printing of scientific visualization and modeling 
predictions of experimentation for verification, validation, and uncertainty quantification 
TPOC: Dale Shires, (410) 278-5006, dale.r.shires.civ@mail.mil, James Ross, (410) 278-9556, 
james.a.ross176.civ@mail.mil 
e. Supercomputing Technologies 
Focuses on delivering world-class HPC capabilities to the DoD S&T and Test and Evaluation 
(T&E) communities. These capabilities provide DOD scientists and engineers with the 
resources necessary to solve the most demanding computational problems. The capabilities 
include large scale HPC systems, high speed networks, multi-terabyte archival mass storage 
systems, data analysis and assessment, and computational software expertise. 
TPOC: Howard Kash, (410) 278-6507, howard.m.kash.civ@mail.mil. 
f. Distributed Simulation, Integration, and Interoperability
 
Existing simulation systems can be characterized as black boxes that interface externally 
allowing internal computations to be non-standard between models representing phenomena, 
which introduces fair fight issues and additional inconsistencies. Moreover, the desired 
contemporary uses of simulation often call for the ability to access simulation capabilities at 
the point of need. In parallel, computer science and computing technology continue to evolve 
providing unique opportunities for innovation in simulation. 
The Distributed Simulation, Integration and Interoperability CCE researches and develops 
methods and means to enable a simulation architecture that is truly based on composable 
models and services as opposed to the traditional method of various simulations interoperating. 
It aims to enable robust Army simulation capabilities with composable synthetic 
representations delivered where they’re needed in the form in which they’re needed. 
ARL is interested in research studies, demonstrations and development involving areas such as: 
13
(1) Methods and means that enable a single simulation architecture capable of supporting 
complex real-time and non-real-time uses 
(2) M&S as a service across geographically distributed areas 
(3) Application of advances in computing to the simulation domain 
(4) Novel encapsulation of military representations, models and data 
(5) Exploration of Digital Engineering, Model-Based Systems Engineering and other trade 
space analysis methodologies in the context of simulation environments 
Research activities should be demonstrated through uses cases relevant to the six Army M&S 
Communities (Acquisition, Analysis, Experimentation, Intelligence, T&E and Training). 
TPOC: Christopher McGroarty, (407) 208-3323, christopher.j.mcgroarty.civ@mail.mil. 
2. MATERIALS RESEARCH (MR) CAMPAIGN 
The MR Campaign focuses on fundamental research to provide superior materials and devices 
needed to achieve lasting strategic land power dominance. MR cross-cuts ARL’s four focused 
S&T campaigns by providing materials with superior properties to address emerging 
requirements and capabilities for all Army platforms. The Army of 2030 will require materials 
with unprecedented capabilities that can be rapidly grown or synthesized, and processed costeffectively to enable Army platforms that are highly mobile, information reliant, lethal, and 
protected. 
The MR Campaign has developed six KCIs, three CCEs, and four MR-related topics that are 
designed to address the future Army’s need to rapidly respond to emerging threats and to 
eliminate tactical surprise – caused by the proliferation of advanced technology by our 
adversaries – by creating a materials by-design and on-demand enterprise; and a manufacturing 
science engine to ensure rapid progression from materials discovery to delivery, with the goal 
of producing materials in greatly reduced timeframes and at a fraction of the cost compared to 
today. 
a. KCI-MR-1: Materials for Soldier and Platform Power Systems 
Design of Soldier and platform power as a system is required to enable indefinite power for 
tactical units and significantly reduces the logistics tail for power resupply. To accomplish this 
requires significant materials and device advancement in the areas of alternative energy, 
advanced energy storage, and energy conversion. This KCI focuses on increasing power supply 
in the three focus areas: (i) Alternative energy; (ii) Advanced energy storage; and (iii) Energy 
conversion technologies. 
14
The Alternative Energy area focuses on developing ultraenergetic materials and radioisotope 
power sources. Radioactive isotopes represent the greatest possible energy density, about 108
Wh/kg, achievable without the use of nuclear reactors – at more than 100,000 times the 
intrinsic energy density of chemicals, radioisotopes are truly ultra-energetic materials. Isotopes 
and isomers of greatest interest are those with half-lives exceeding 10 years, while their 
corresponding ground states may be stable or, in many cases, unstable. A research objective in 
support of the application of this technology is to understand the physics underlying radiation 
hard materials, and to measure efficiencies for related power sources. As a separate technology, 
wireless power is focused to enable truly wireless distribution in which loads and sources are 
free to move while maintaining power levels and efficiency. 
The Advanced Energy Storage area focuses on developing new materials and components for 
very high energy density and high power density batteries as well as novel energy storage 
technologies for Army capabilities. Battery research is focused on developing new materials 
for high voltage, high temperature, extended cycle life, and high power energy storage for 
military environments and applications. Development of embedded, flexible, multifunctional 
structures that provide the required structural and power/energy performance under combined 
load without compromising the safety or integrity of the target platform are being sought. 
The Energy Conversion Technologies area focuses on mechanical and thermal conversion 
systems, used to generate electrical energy from Soldier power systems to base level power 
generators or to generate mechanical energy for ground and air vehicles. Efforts are focused on 
compact thermal sources that generate thermal energy efficiently from transportable fuels. A 
primary goal is to integrate the thermal source with thermal-to-electric energy converters for 
Soldier and Soldier system power sources capable of 1000 Wh/kg energy densities. Fuel cells as 
energy conversion devices offer improvements in energy density; however, miniaturization and 
cost reductions are necessary. Acid-alkaline hybrid fuel cell stack designs can help meet these 
needs and motivate the development of anion exchange membranes (AEMs). The JP-8 
reformation research and development (R&D) program is directed at reformation of JP-8 fuel 
into a hydrogen rich alternative fuel for downstream power generation. Essential will be the 
development of liquid phase desulfurization process and Pd-composite membrane for hydrogen 
separation. 
i. Electrochemical Power Production and Energy Storage areas of interest are: 
(1) Active and Reserve Primary Batteries for Munitions Applications: Research of new 
battery chemistries, materials, and battery designs for improved thermal and liquid electrolyte 
reserve batteries capable of supplying power densities from 20 to 400 Watts/liter after 10 or 
more years of storage. Primary areas of interest are: thin-film thermal battery chemistries, 
materials, components, or production methodologies for batteries with faster activation, higher 
power, smaller volume, more-flexible form-factor, greater mechanical robustness, or better 
production efficiency; and new forms of heat sources that would be compatible with the thin-
15
film thermal battery technology. Storage and operation are required over the full military 
temperature range. 
(2) Primary Lithium Batteries: Research in battery chemistries for cells and stacks of cells 
for man-portable applications using environmentally-friendly materials capable of providing 
better service than the Army's present general-purpose Li/SO2 and Li/MnO2 batteries. 
Emphasis is on modification of commercial chemistries to permit all-weather storage and use. 
This may include Li/air, Li/S and Li/CFx formulations. The development of manufacturing 
technology for these batteries is an area of interest. 
(3) Rechargeable Li (Li-Ion) Batteries: Research in electrode and electrolyte materials for 
cells and stacks of cells using liquid or polymeric electrolytes capable of providing, at the 
packaged cell level, specific energies greater than 250 Wh/kg, specific power greater than 50 
W/kg continuous, and greater than 10 kW/kg pulse power over the full military temperature 
range. Hybrid energy storage technology that provides both high power and extended cycle 
life, beyond conventional Li-ion, at a moderate energy density. The development of 
manufacturing technology for these batteries is an area of interest. 
(4) Advanced battery chemistries to include multivalent materials such as magnesium and 
aluminum. Research of components, especially electrolytes and cathodes to allow stable 
operation. Research in Aqueous Li-ion to provide high energy and safe li-ion batteries for 
Soldier carried applications. Investigation in Lithium rechargeable batteries including Li-S and 
Li-Air as well as development of new cathodes and electrolytes for rechargeable lithium 
batteries that reduce or eliminate dendrite formation. Advanced solid electrolytes for all solid 
state batteries and molten salt batteries including advanced processing of solid electrolytes into 
dense robust membranes required for cell manufacture. 
(5) Batteries for grid storage applications that include molten salt batteries, dual 
intercalation batteries, and aqueous electrolyte storage batteries. 
(6) Fuel Cells: R&D of improved low temperature alkaline and acid based polymer 
electrolyte membrane fuel cells and components including catalysts for use with alcohol and 
solid fuels. Use M&S to solve and improve fuel cells performance. The development of 
hydrocarbon fuel reformers and reformer components, including desulfurizers and sulfur 
tolerant reformer catalysts to provide hydrogen for fuel cells are areas of interest. The 
development of medium and high temperature fuel cells and components for the direct 
utilization of hydrocarbon fuels or impure hydrogen is also an area of interest. 
(7) Fast Discharge Pulse Power Capacitors: Research of film capacitor technology 
including the development of high energy density dielectric films, impregnants, metallization 
and manufacturing technology for capacitors that can provide energy densities > 2.0 J/cc with a 
DC life over 2000 hours, and discharge time is the microseconds range. 
16
(8) High Temperature Capacitors for Power Electronics: R&D of high temperature 
polymeric dielectrics including process development for high temperature thin film 
manufacturing. The capacitors made of such thin film dielectric should be operable at 
temperatures over 125oC, preferably over 150 degrees C. The capacitors shall have the 
following characteristics: a dissipation factor below 0.5 percent, insulation resistance greater 
than 105 ohm-farad at 125oC, operational life of greater than 10,000 hours at frequency greater 
than 20 kHz and rms current greater than 1.0 A/microfarad. 
ii. Ultra-Energetic Materials and Energy Storage areas of interest include, but are not limited 
to, the following: 
(1) Radioisotopes and Nuclear Isomers: Develop and study approaches to the control of 
nuclear emission and/or nuclear decay rates. Investigate nuclear structure of isomeric nuclei, 
particularly focused on long-lived isomers from which gamma or charged particle emission 
could be utilized for power sources. 
(2) Radioisotope/Nuclear Isomer Energy Conversion: Develop and study improved 
concepts for conversion of nuclear decays into usable electrical power. Techniques using 
liquids or novel materials are of interest for long-lived micro-power sources. 
TPOC: Marc S. Litz, (301) 394-5556, marc.s.litz.civ@mail.mil, and James Carroll, (301) 
3941411, james.j.carroll99.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Topological materials for energy efficient electronics operating at or near room 
temperature. Research interest includes, but is not restricted to, the following: 
(1) Molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) growth and characterization of thin layers of topological 
materials (topological insulators, Dirac and Weyl semimetals, topological superconductors). 
(2) Theoretical and experimental investigation of the magnetotransport properties of 
topological surface states of three dimensional topological insulators, and the 
magnetotransport characteristics of two-dimensional topological insulators. 
 
(3) Topologically enabled devices and technology based on active heteroepitaxial interfaces 
between topological materials and ferroic materials, as well as topological materials and 
high temperature superconductors. 
(4) Investigations of proximity-induced superconductivity in topological materials.
(5) Magneto-terahertz investigations of topological surface states of three dimensional 
topological materials. 
TPOC: Ivan C. Lee, (301) 394-0039, ivan.c.lee2.civ@mail.mil.