vi. Innovative Engine Technologies. ARL seeks proposals on innovative engine 
technologies to enable higher power density, higher efficiency, reduced signatures, multi-fuel 
capable, reduced cooling capacity, and more durable and reliable air and ground engines. 
Areas of research interest include, but are not limited to, advanced engine cycles, innovative 
new engine concepts, innovative component technologies, alternative fuels combustion, and 
engine analysis tools and modeling to advance the state-of-the-art technologies. 
TPOC: Kenneth Kim, (410) 278-9525, kenneth.s.kim11.civ@mail.mil, and Michael 
Szedlmayer, (410) 278-9020, michael.t.szedlmayer.civ@mail.mil. 
vii. Rotorcraft Propulsion. Proposals are sought to improve propulsion for helicopters and 
other rotorcraft, including advanced gas turbine engine and mechanical power transfer system 
technologies and concepts. Improved performance and reliability must be simultaneously 
achieved with reduced weight and cost. Research interests include basic adaptive technologies 
that can enable variable speed/torque engine and drivetrain capabilities, and adaptive 
thermodynamic cycles that create new design space for revolutionary propulsion systems for 
the Army. Analysis code and algorithm development (including nanoscale material modeling, 
nonlinear structural dynamics, fluid structure interaction, conjugate heat transfer, and related 
propulsion multi-physics modeling) is needed with along with experimental validation of 
analysis predictions. 
TPOC: Waldo Acosta, (216) 433-3393, waldo.a.acosta.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-ScMVR-3: Virtual Risk-Informed Agile Maneuver Sustainment (VRAMS) 
VRAMS is focused on discovery, innovation and transition of integrated health monitoring and 
maneuver capabilities to support the Army’s vision for zero-maintenance platforms. ARL 
goals are to automatically detect changes in functional states; advance design methodologies 
and methods for structures; analyze and characterize novel durable and damage tolerant 
materials and structures; and assess functionality in the context of upcoming or ongoing 
missions. Functional changes in structural components or sub-systems may include effects 
from structural fatigue, wear, damage, or age. The long-term goal is to integrate detected 
functional changes with data from on/off board systems for mission planning, maintenance 
schedules, and operations to compare readiness to mission demands. Additionally, system 
responses are envisioned to inform vehicle operations in real time on vehicle health and 
capabilities, and recommend operator control adjustments to subsystem responses to balance 
performance and integrity limits. 
Currently, the primary structural damage indicator is crack size. Damage detection 
technologies based on crack measurements provide accurate service life predictions towards 
the last 20% of remaining useful life for structures and components. Given detectable fatigue 
cracks appear relatively late in service life, it is often too late to perform remedial maintenance 
to prevent failures. Structural damage is known to also affect material mechanical properties 
such as stiffness or compliance, hardness, damping, residual stresses, acoustics, electrical and 
magnetic properties (such as resistivity, permeability and dielectric constants). ARL seeks 
37
research proposals that will investigate, identify, quantify, or correlate more reliable methods 
to detect damage much earlier in service life. Proposals are also sought to design and develop 
advanced structural materials (such as self-healing or stress strengthening materials) and 
concepts to advance extremely lightweight, adaptive, durable, and damage tolerant structures. 
While fault detection sensing capabilities and tailored signal processing algorithms have 
advanced, challenges also remain to efficiently detect damage when platforms are not in 
operation as well as real time when platforms are under complex operational loads. Research 
proposals in these areas are also of interest. 
ARL seeks proposals to reliably detect damage earlier, advance vehicle materials and 
structures, and develop health and usage monitoring system (HUMS) technologies. 
Fundamental understanding and models for damage progression are needed to reliably detect 
damage early and predict progression in complex multi-axial/multi-scale environments. 
Vehicle structure improvements are needed to reduce size and weight; improve reliability and 
affordability; reduce maintenance burdens; and sense early structural damage. As structural 
damage indicator research advances, concepts will also be sought to mitigate damage 
progression via real-time HUMS, risk assessments, and vehicle adaptive maneuvers. 
TPOC: Mulugeta Haile, (410) 278-5289, mulugeta.a.haile.civ@mail.mil, Asha Hall, (410) 
278-2384, asha.j.hall.civ@mail.mil, Mark Bundy, (410) 278-4318, 
mark.l.bundy2.civ@mail.mil, and Jaret Riddick, (703) 693-9141, jaret.c.riddick.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-ScMVR-4: Mechanics and Dynamics of Complex Systems 
ARL seeks proposals exploring directions for the mechanics and dynamics of complex ground 
and air systems scaled from microsystems to manned and optionally manned platforms. 
Primary areas of interest include fluid structure dynamics, mechanisms and actuation, and 
platform concepts. 
To achieve technology developments, research in fluid structure dynamics is critical to 
understand aero-elastic stability characteristics of advanced rotor structures. Modeling, 
simulation, and experimentation can be applied to understand fundamental aspects necessary to 
further develop, advance, and evaluate passive and active technologies for stability 
augmentation. ARL seeks proposals for understanding and predicting aero-elasticity of 
advanced platforms, and for developing passive and active technologies for improved platform 
aero-elasticity stability performance. From a dynamics perspective, research will advance 
mathematical treatments and decomposition techniques of complex fluid and coupled fluid
structure phenomena that go beyond energy based methods. Approaches will enable 
theoretical, numerical, and experimental modeling and control research in fluids and fluid
structure interaction problems that limit maneuver capabilities. 
Rotor blade-mounted aerodynamic actuators provide a means for individual blade control and 
have potential to reduce vibratory loads, reduce noise and improve performance for vertical 
flight vehicles. Blade-mounted actuation methods include both mechanical devices (such as 
38
circulation control and servo-flaps) and electrical control devices (such as piezo-electric or 
smart materials) which provide sufficient control authority under various operating conditions 
and environments. ARL seeks proposals to develop actuation mechanisms to achieve 
swashplate-less rotor systems as an enabler for high-speed vertical lift platforms. Additionally, 
proposals are also desired for M&S methods to evaluate such technologies are desired. 
ARL also seeks proposals that provide underpinning S&T that will allow the Army to detect, 
diagnosis, visualize, and model interactions from the component level up to the system-of
systems level for complex mobility systems being developed for the future. ARL anticipates 
that data informed design and decision making environment will be fully collaborative, 
multidisciplinary, real-time, and immersive by 2030. Capabilities stemming from proposals in 
this area are expected to allow technology developers, in interactive and tactile environments, 
to see how their technology integrates with a system, the effects of internal and external 
interactions on the system during operation, and probabilistic impacts on measures of 
effectiveness--all before any components of the system are manufactured. Research under this 
core capability enabler is also expected to enable the Army to determine where gaps exist in its 
technology development portfolio and help inform decisions and investments. 
Proposals addressing novel mathematical treatments of nonlinear dynamics and complex 
systems are also of interest to ARL. Proposed research is expected to be inherently 
interdisciplinary and should not be application driven. Theoretical underpinnings are 
particularly emphasized here rather than development of numerical methods. Examples of 
current areas of interest include spectral operator based approaches to reduced order modeling 
of multi-scale dynamical systems and fractional calculus perspectives on complex systems with 
emphasis on physical interpretations. Applicants need not be limited to these two examples. 
Furthermore, combined experimental and theoretical mechanics advances are encouraged in a 
variety of areas ranging from non-equilibrium phenomena and active matter, nanocomposites 
with engineered interfaces, self-assemblies, as well as novel solutions for overcoming 
pervasive challenges in aeromechanics (such as flow control or structural damping). 
TPOC: Hao Kang, (410) 278-6811, hao.kang2.civ@mail.mil, Eric Spero, (410) 278-8743, 
eric.spero.civ@mail.mil, and Bryan Glaz, (410) 278-8037, bryan.j.glaz.civ@mail.mil. 
Sciences for Maneuver (ScMVR) Related Topic: 
h. Maneuver System Trade Space Methodology and Tools 
ARL seeks proposals to model and examine the maneuver trade space of novel and evolving 
technologies for Army air and ground vehicles, both manned and unmanned. Quantitative 
approaches are sought to assess the benefits of emerging and existing technologies to inform 
strategic research directions. Proposals are needed to provide scientific understanding and 
technical foundation to develop maneuver concepts to achieve next generation capabilities. 
Proposals are sought in these areas: 
39
i. Methods to create and explore technology development trade space, including, but not 
limited to, manufacture, materials, integration, maneuverability, reliability, sustainment needs, 
and maintenance costs. 
ii. Methods to explore the design space and visualize multidimensional tradeoffs, beyond 
two-dimensional Pareto front and three-dimensional Pareto surface. 
iii. Methods to increase confidence that technology trade spaces are sufficiently bounded 
and populated. 
iv. Methods to estimate robust and reliable subsystem- and system-level optima based on 
technology uncertainties at the component level. 
v. Methods to predict long-term technology reliability and maintainability that 
component-level reliability improvements can have at subsystems, systems and fleets. 
vi. Methods to analyze the sensitivity of system capabilities to changes in design variables, 
requirements, and technologies. 
vii. Removal or reduction in subjectivity associated with weightings on measures of 
performance and effectiveness, as well as assessments of the sensitivity of stakeholder desires 
to system capability. 
TPOC: Eric Spero, (410) 278-8743, eric.spero.civ@mail.mil. 
4. INFORMATION SCIENCES (IS) CAMPAIGN 
The IS Campaign focuses on gaining a greater understanding of emerging technology 
opportunities that support intelligent information systems that perform acquisition, analysis, 
reasoning, decision-making, collaborative communication, and assurance of information and 
knowledge. Understanding gained through these research efforts will lead to technological 
developments that make it possible to manage and utilize information flows in the battlespace. 
Technologies resulting from these efforts will have a direct impact on the Information 
Supremacy of the Army of 2030. 
The IS Campaign has developed four KCIs, five CCEs, and one related IS topic that are 
integrated to form a robust foundation to understand and overcome complex fundamental 
challenges associated with Sensing and Effecting; Systems Intelligence and Intelligent 
Systems; Human and Information Interaction; Networks and Communications; and Cyber 
Security. The campaign builds on fundamental pillars of networks; advanced decision support 
aids; M&S of complex environments; and HPC to conduct research in areas including 
Intelligent Agents; Enhanced Tactical Networks; Effective Decision Support Aids; Knowledge 
40
Exploitation; and Cyber Defense and Forensics. Discoveries and innovations made in this area 
will exert a significant impact on the Army of the future. 
a. KCI-IS-1: Cyber Fire and Maneuver in Tactical Battle 
This research effort will focus on developing the models, methods, and understanding to 
overcome existing barriers to realization of effective cyber fires and maneuvers in a tactical 
environment. The goals of this work are to pursue near-autonomous detection and 
identification of malicious activity directed at friendly networks; methods to rapidly respond to 
adversarial activities; predictive characterization of network vulnerabilities; and a robust 
framework to assess networks. In addition, this research program will focus on realization of 
methodologies for the reliable reconfiguration of friendly cyber assets to evade or recover from 
attack; covert means for collection and predictive analysis of enemy actions; and 
methodologies to degrade or destroy adversarial cyber assets with high certainty and 
predictable probabilities of kill. 
TPOC: Jerry Clarke, (301) 394-1685, jerry.a.clarke4.civ@mail.mil. 
b. KCI-IS-2: Taming the Flash-Floods of Networked Battlefield Information 
This research effort will focus on developing the models and methods to overcome existing 
barriers to realization of analytical approaches to better understand the dynamics that 
characterize complex, multi-genre networks and the data generated by these networks. The 
goals of this work are to pursue quantitative models of information semantics trust and quality; 
methodologies to creating coherent information networks from distributed information sources; 
approaches to partially centralized and semi-autonomous control of large complex networks; 
and approaches to autonomously recognizing, modeling, and anticipating dynamic changes in 
network processes. 
TPOC: Brian Rivera, (301) 394-2298, brian.m.rivera.civ@mail.mil, and Stephen M. Russell, 
(301) 394-1017, stephen.m.russell8.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-IS-3: Acting Intelligently in a Dynamic Battlefield of Information, Agents, and 
Humans 
This research effort will focus on developing the models, methods, and understanding to 
overcome existing barriers for the realization of robust and reliable teams of intelligent agents 
and Soldiers in a squad. The goals of this work are to pursue concepts for processing largescale text and speech of low-resource languages; concepts for determining visual saliency in 
large scale imagery and video data sets; militarily-relevant pattern recognition and mapping 
methodologies; techniques to enable real-time decision-making; approaches to develop new 
world-models of recently encountered spaces; algorithms to infer relationships between 
disparate elements and events; and approaches to autonomously recognize, model, and 
anticipate dynamic changes in information processes. 
41
TPOC: David G. Baran, (301) 394-5613, and Reginald L. Hobbs, (301) 394-1981, 
reginald.l.hobbs2.civ@mail.mil. 
d. KCI-IS-4: Sensing and Information Fusion for Advanced Indications and Warnings 
This research effort will focus on developing the ability to shift the burden of technological 
complexity away from the user by relying heavily on making information sources such as 
sensors, social media, and communications more capable, easily assessable and interconnected. 
Fusion of multiple information sources, not only sensors, is essential and much of the program 
will be focused on foundational work aimed at facilitating the correlation of relevant 
information for display to the user. Fundamental research in the physical phenomenology of 
acoustic, electro-optic, electromagnetic, and seismic wave propagation is critical since it will 
lead to new sensing opportunities and sources of information, enable full exploitation of sensor 
data, and lead to realization of new sensors which can provide more robust input to fusion 
algorithms. 
TPOC: Raghuveer M. Rao, (301) 394-0860, raghuveer.m.rao.civ@mail.mi, Tom Walker, (301) 
394-0756, and Sandra Collier, (301) 394 2641, sandra.l.collier4.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-IS-1: Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere Environments 
The IS CCE on Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere Environments 
addresses the increasingly complex battlefields, in which the Army must be able to 
communicate; a highly dynamic, wireless, mobile networking environment populated by 
hundreds to thousands of networked nodes. Often, these environments are austere in terms of 
availability of resources for supporting and servicing the networking equipment. They are 
highly congested by multiple conflicting demands on bandwidth, and severely contested by a 
capable adversary. Research in networking and communications will address these multiple 
and complex challenges by pursuing the following overarching goals: 
i. Diverse, effective channels – traditional and non-traditional – will be available for
creating heterogeneous networks rapidly, predictably, and in a manner optimized for specific 
requirements and constraints of mission and environment, adapting intelligently to challenges 
of terrain, atmospheric conditions, local bandwidth congestion, and ensuring high performance 
along with energy efficiency and minimized probability of detection and interception by the 
adversary. 
ii. The networks will be driven, largely autonomously, but with appropriate degree of 
human control, by protocols and algorithms for control and processing of signal and 
information, as well as for self-organization of the network, that ensure persistent high 
performance of the network, consistent with dynamically changing missions, supportive of 
rapid reorganization and mobility of friendly forces, and highly robust against strong 
disruptions. 
42
iii. Survivability and defensive properties will be integral to the future network, making it 
inherently secure and survivable against disruptions by adversarial attacks such as jamming 
and other forms of interference, in part by minimizing probability of the communications and 
networks detection, interception, penetration and information exfiltration, as well as by 
responding to adversary actions by agile maneuver and recovery. 
The IS CCE on Networking and Communications in Contested and Austere Environments will 
provide underpinning technology for KCIs where it is critical to ensure communications 
remain reliable, robust and resilient in the face of disruptive effects such as task reorganization, 
mobility of friendly forces, and adversarial attacks on friendly networks in future tactical 
environments. 
TPOC: Dr. Brian Rivera, (301) 394-2298, brian.m.rivera.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-IS-2: Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Multi-Lingual Computing 
The IS CCE on NLP and Multi-Lingual Computing objective is to provide foundational 
understanding and applied theoretical methods to enable the rapid and precise automated 
translation and IE from documents regardless of language, dialect, or medium. Research in this 
area will address the issues such as: (1) Should one translate Arabic dialects to English directly 
or pivot through Modern Standard Arabic? (2) Is it easier to differentiate between Arabic 
dialects if they are written in Roman script or Arabic script? (3) Can crowd-sourced workers 
produce accurate dependency parse annotations with minimal training? (4) When building 
statistical machine translation (MT) systems for polysynthetic languages what degree of 
decomposition of words into morphemes is most effective? (5) To what extent do IE 
algorithms developed for English require fundamental changes to be successfully applied to 
Arabic due to inherent differences in language structure? (6) How do we develop an event 
ontology that will aid in detecting higher-order event-event relations? (7) How can we 
overcome the noise and special features of social media data without over-fitting our 
approaches to a particular media source (e.g., Twitter)? The strategic approach to these 
focuses include: 
i. MT of polysynthetic languages (e.g., Inuktitut) into English, Information Extraction 
(IE) algorithms for Arabic temporal expressions, events, and relations, protest domain ontology 
based on language of Twitter and adaptation of traditional IE software to language of social 
media. 
ii. Temporal and spatial linguistic cues and modified dialog management systems to 
support natural language communication between human and robots in a collaborative task. 
Event ontologies and NLP components to incorporate social media artifacts and document 
summarization for situational awareness. 
iii. A common multilingual semantic representation of a 3,000 word subset of spoken 
language frequently used by Soldiers in cross-lingual, cross-cultural encounters while enabling 
43
Soldiers and robots to collaborate effectively with spoken natural language communications 
comprising 80% of their interactions. 
NLP and Multilingual Computing supports KCIs by addressing underpinning science for 
information gathering and management, human-intelligent system interactions and intelligence 
and mission support tools. 
TPOC: Reginald L. Hobbs, (301) 394-1981, reginald.l.hobbs2.civ@mail.mil. 
g. CCE-IS-3: Text and Video Analytics 
The IS CCE on Text and Video Analytics addresses how traditional video analytic methods is 
improved by introducing semantic cues using textual class-based attributes. This research 
addresses a large gap, namely how can text-based information be combined with video 
analysis. We propose to develop a new approach that incorporates textual class-based attributes 
to impact the accuracy of methods when traditional low-level video features do not perform as 
well as expected, as in action recognition. The convergence of text and video from a range of 
sources holds promise for allowing warfighters to exploit the incredibly large and growing 
sources of information streaming in, an understanding of which can be critical to decision 
making, and therefore safety and mission success. This exploratory research will make use of 
an event ontology to structure relationships between attributes, actions, events, and larger 
sequences of events. Three research foci will be emphasized: 
i. Leverage text within video for object recognition. 
ii. Transition these findings into the activity recognition. 
iii. Expand into highly complex sequences of actions to be able to infer implicit 
information which may not be explicit. 
The IS CCE on Text and Video Analytics will support KCIs by creating a path towards 
developing a deeper semantic representation of unstructured data, including reasoning for 
improved scene understanding using real-world knowledge that can make it easy for human 
analysts to quickly recognize important factors and relationships. 
TPOC: Clare Voss, (301) 394-5615, clare.r.voss.civ@mail.mil, and Heesung Kwon, (301) 394-
2501, heesung.kwon.civ@mail.mil. 
h. CCE-IS-4: Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation 
The purpose of the IS CCE on Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation is to advance the 
ability to accurately sense and forecast weather events that can significantly deviate from 
44
expected climatic norms, and to assess and mitigate their effects on Army personnel, systems, 
and operations. The following goals address this critical requirement: 
i. Establish capability to characterize near-surface heat, moisture, and momentum fluxes in 
rugged, complex terrain. Essential atmospheric data will be quickly, accurately, and 
automatically collected from a wide variety of ground- and air-based platforms. These data will 
be incorporated as new parameterizations into fine-scale Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) 
models to provide high-resolution temporal and spatial predictions. 
ii. Characterize interactions of hazardous aerosols with naturally-occurring atmospheric 
constituents. Develop low SWaP (Size, Weight, and Power) LiDAR/RADAR prototype systems 
capable of remotely-characterizing atmospheric parameters (i.e., wind, temperature, moisture, 
etc.) and aerosol composition. 
iii. Ingest atmospheric data seamlessly via “machine to machine” (M2M) interfaces into 
advanced modeling systems hosted on powerful, tactical-sized, high performance computer 
systems, even down to the smallest of mobile, Soldier-hosted hand-held devices. These models 
will be fully validated with quantified metrics to assess their accuracy. Apply Machine Learning 
techniques to fully exploit/data mine large atmospheric data sets.
iv. Translate weather forecasts from NWP models into highly-intuitive decision support 
guidance products tailored to meet a variety of mission requirements, depicting weather impacts 
on personnel, operations, and systems. 
The Atmospheric Boundary Layer Exploitation CCE provides information and intelligence 
tools to be used as a force multiplier in intelligence and mission command decision support 
tools, artillery accuracy, Soldier health and performance, communications, sensing and imaging, 
and intelligent systems’ maneuvers. The underpinning science supports KCIs by providing 
environmentally context-aware, mission-relevant information. Friendly forces leveraging this 
technology will have vastly superior knowledge, when compared to our enemies, of the current 
and future atmospheric state, as well as its potential effects on personnel, systems, and 
operations. This work will provide strategic and tactical information for the Army of the future 
by providing Army-scale atmospheric predictions in complex, dynamic terrain and “megacity” 
dense-urban environments. This information will guide mission planning and execution in the 
field and inform intelligent systems, including smart energy systems, autonomous systems 
(ground and air), smart routing, and others, for real-time adjustments and maneuver capability. 
TPOC: Dr. Robb Randall, (575) 678-3123, robb.m.randall.civ@mail.mil.
i. CCE-IS-5: Sensors, Sensor Phenomenology, and Algorithms 
This CCE seeks to develop underpinning technologies that will provide the Army with a high 
degree of situational understanding against ground and airborne threats while operating in 
45
complex environments against adaptive enemy forces. The main objectives are to develop the 
necessary models, signal processing, prototype sensors and subsystems to support the next 
generation of situational awareness, air defense, and tactical sensing RADAR technologies. 
Research areas include: 
 
i. Forward looking synthetic aperture radar (SAR) for degraded visual environments 
(DVE). Research will develop laboratory-grade hardware, RADAR signal processing 
algorithms and physics-based computational models to demonstrate technologies associated 
with forward looking SAR concepts at the millimeter wave band for helicopters operating in 
DVE conditions to ensure situational understanding, navigation, and safe landing.
ii. Affordable COTS-based RADARs for Degraded Visual Environment (DVE): Research 
uses an affordable COTS framework to perform field measurements and analysis in order to 
define appropriate metrics for the multifunction DVE helicopter mission. The warfighter will 
benefit with situational awareness in environments obscured by weather (brownout and 
whiteout conditions) and other nearby obstacles. 
iii. Multi-band air defense RADAR: Research will focus on designing, developing, and 
assessing cognitive and adaptive RADAR architectures and components for Air Defense and 
Counter-Rockets, Artillery, and Mortar (C-RAM) missions. Other major applications include 
detecting small UAS using Doppler and micro-Doppler signature-based techniques. 
iv. Cognitive RADAR: Research will investigate various hardware and algorithmic 
approaches to develop techniques that enable continued RADAR operations in congested RF 
environments. Spectrum sensing, waveform design, machine learning, artificial intelligence, 
and agile and adaptive hardware solutions across multiple frequency bands are key research 
areas. 
TPOC: Anders Sullivan, (301) 394-0838, anders.j.sullivan.civ@mail.mil.
Information Sciences (IS) Related Topics: 
j. Electric and Magnetic Field Sensor Technology 
Research proposals are desired that are related to small, rugged, low-power electric- and 
magnetic-field sensors that can be deployed on a battlefield using artillery-based delivery 
systems, or scattered from air or ground vehicles, or emplaced by individual soldiers. These 
sensors should be passive or semi-active (i.e., with no local field-generating element), and may 
operate at low frequencies in the quasi-static zone (or "near field"), where the electric and 
magnetic fields are not coupled. These sensors should be characterized by exceptionally low 
power, size, weight, and cost, and/or by exceptionally high sensitivity and low noise (i.e., with 
performance limited by the background environment). Sensor bandwidth generally falls 
between DC and ~1 MHz, but may be further limited for specific applications: e.g., 0.001-10 
46
Hz for anomaly detection; 30-3000 Hz for electric-power sensing; 3-30 kHz for very low 
frequency (VLF) sensing.
Sensors should operate in an unattended mode, and should be able to detect, classify, identify, 
localize, and/or track tactically-significant targets, including ground vehicles (tanks and other 
tracked vehicles, and wheeled vehicles), air vehicles (fixed-wing, rotary-wing, unmanned aerial 
vehicles (UAV) / manned aerial vehicles (MAV), etc.), and/or other targets and events at 
tactically-useful distances. These other targets include, but are not limited to, armed individual 
soldiers, underground facilities, power and telephone lines, RF transmitters; other events 
including gunshots, mortar and artillery launches, and explosions. 
These sensors may be used individually or as part of a wide-area sensor array for surveillance, 
target acquisition, and/or engagement. While individual sensors may or may not have 
exceptional individual performance, their low size, power, weight, and cost should permit them 
to be used on the battlefield in ways not previously contemplated. Moreover, arrays and/or 
networks of such sensors are expected to provide new sensing capabilities and levels of 
performance simply not available today. 
Unattended surveillance sensors may be stationary or mounted on robotic platforms; these 
sensors will be integrated with local and networked signal processing and communications 
capabilities. They should operate unattended for weeks or months after deployment, and 
indefinitely with energy harvesting. The sensor output should be quantitative: e.g., analog 
voltage level(s) or digital word(s); it should contain target information, and possibly a 
confidence level, suitable for low-bandwidth transmission and/or inter-sensor fusion. 
Proposals will be accepted in seven areas: 
i. Research on novel electric- and magnetic-field sensor concepts leading to quantification 
of detection distance(s), classification, identification, localization, and/or tracking of various 
classes of targets. High-performance sensors should have exceptional sensitivity (limited by 
environmental noise), frequency and phase response, dynamic range (60 to 120+ dB), linearity, 
total harmonic distortion, hysteresis, cross-axis sensitivity, cross-modality sensitivity, etc. 
Arrays of sensors should be characterized by exceptional performance matching. Low-SWaPC sensing elements (field transducers), processors, and communication elements should each 
be chip-scale, use 1 nW to ~1 mW of power, and cost on the order of a few dollars.
ii. Research directed at environmental and/or platform noise reduction, and/or reduction of 
sensor front-end noise (particularly 1/f noise). 
iii. Research related to filtering and/or signal processing techniques, which are expected to 
improve the detectability of targets in a battlefield environment. Array processing, in-situ 
"imaging", and multi-modal processing are of particular interest.
47
iv. Computer-based modeling of targets and sensors that can provide a capability to 
perform trade-off analyses of sensor concepts during prototype design. 
v. Algorithms that can provide improved detection, classification, and/or identification of 
targets of interest in real-world environments. Proposed algorithms should be low-SWaP-C, 
portable to the Internet of Battlefield Things (IoBT), and usable in the Future Army Network.
vi. Resilient processing with performance that gracefully degrades in the presence of 
intermittent power, intermittent and/or unreliable networking, information assurance attacks, 
memory failures, and cosmic rays, etc.
vii. Proof-of-concept prototype design(s) of individual electric and magnetic-field sensors 
suitable for detecting tactically significant targets in battlefield environment. 
TPOC: Mr. David M. Hull, (301) 394-3140, david.m.hull6.civ@mail.mil. 
k. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
The Government currently collects more data than it can meaningfully process. This includes 
image and video data, structured data sets for a variety of combat and non-combat missions 
(e.g. health, maintenance, logistics, and operations), and various, stove-piped, unstructured, 
massive data sets that exist primarily in the form of text documents. The vast scale of data 
collection challenges human-driven/human-only solutions to collection and processing.
The goals of this work are to increase the government’s capacity to process that data by 
assisting and augmenting analysts through the application of artificial intelligence (AI) and 
machine learning (ML) algorithms, to include deep learning algorithms. Research will focus on 
experimental investigation and prototype development of AI/ML algorithms and capabilities. In 
addition, this research program will focus on helping analysts perceive and understand dynamic 
and unknown environments. Another research focus area includes the creation comprehensive 
models of real-world environments in which AI/ML entities facilitate course of action 
development by displaying intuition and improvisation characteristics in real-time, dynamic 
scenarios.
Elements of this research effort include new frameworks and tools for the creation of 
algorithms; tailored algorithms to perform discrete tasks, particularly in the fields of computer
vision and language; innovative AI/ML computational environments; new labeling techniques 
to generate massive scale annotated data for supervised deep learning techniques; new methods 
of edge computation to bring deep learning algorithms to constrained computational 
environments; methods to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of algorithmic approaches; 
interfaces for the display, search, and interaction with algorithmically derived metadata and 
tabular structured algorithmic output; new techniques, hardware, software, and tools for the 
training, testing, and validating of algorithms; and storage and indexing capabilities for local 
algorithmically-produced data