TPOC: Michael Lander, (301) 394-2367, michael.d.lander2.civ@mail.mil.
l. Technologies for Spectrum Analysis and Control
ARL is interested in technologies that enable the use of electromagnetic (EM) energy to control 
the EM spectrum or attack the adversary while protecting our own EM systems against 
interference. Embedded in this goal are technologies that include EM spectrum sensing to 
enable situational understanding. ARL is accepting proposals addressing one or more of the 
following research areas:
i. Cognitive/adaptive: Technologies that enable EM capabilities or techniques to outpace 
an adversary’s tactical options, placing ourselves at a strategic position in the “observe, 
orient, decide, and act” (OODA) loop.
ii. Distributed/coordinated: Technologies that enable spatially and temporally diverse 
awareness, action, and response, leveraging the Army’s large number of low-cost and/or 
small platforms.
iii. Pre-emptive/proactive: Technologies that prevent or disrupt the adversary’s ability to 
engage our forces, by decisively impeding the “find, fix, track, target, engage, assess” 
process.
iv. Broadband/multispectral: Technologies including ultra-wideband and multi-band radio 
frequency front-ends, back-ends, antennas, receivers, and transmitters to enable agnostic 
detection and prosecution of adversary transceivers.
v. Interoperable/compatible: Technologies based on software-defined, standardized, nonproprietary interfaces, including waveforms, spectrum management, and protocols.
vi. Electronic protection: Technologies that ensure blue force protection from jamming and 
EM interference with minimal impact on system performance, or technologies that 
enhance system performance in complex congested and contested EM environments.
TPOC: Dr. Matthew B. Higgins, (301) 394-0849, matthew.b.higgins6.civ@mail.mil.
5. SCIENCES FOR LETHALITY AND PROTECTION (ScL/P) CAMPAIGN
The ScL/P Campaign focuses on gaining a greater understanding and discovery of mechanisms 
and on generating concepts and emerging technologies that support lethality and protection 
systems, and the mechanisms of injury affecting the warfighter. Knowledge and concepts 
gained through these research efforts will lead to technologies that enable a broad array of 
discriminate lethality systems as well as resilient protection systems and reduced incidents and 
severity of combat casualties. Campaign competencies and knowledge can support the Army 
through 2025, and the new technologies are essential for Lethality and Protection Superiority 
of the Army of 2030 and beyond. 
The ScL/P Campaign has developed five KCIs and two CCEs that are integrated to form a 
robust foundation to understand and overcome complex fundamental challenges associated 
with Ballistics and Blast; EW; and Battlefield Injury Mechanisms. Through this campaign, 
49
combinations of existing and new innovative technologies will be brought together through 
partnerships to realize disruptive system advances. These advances are driven by overcoming 
key learning and technical challenges required to further enable the 
Army of 2030 and beyond. 
a. KCI-ScL/P-1: Scalable Lethal Adaptable Weapons Concepts 
These efforts will provide continued lethal overmatch across the full range of weapons for both 
direct and indirect fires. Systems will be employed in expanding roles such as light and heavy 
armor with increased range and fire power as well as new lightweight manned and unmanned 
combat vehicles/systems and dismounts. New types of gun and missile technologies will be 
enabled with new launch mechanisms to deliver increased muzzle energies and new lethal 
mechanisms capable of defeating the toughest targets at reduced energy, reduced caliber, or 
reduced missile size while working with other research areas to provide necessary standoff 
range. Futuristic lethal mechanisms will be pursued and validated to provide a range of 
incapacitation effects against personnel and combat vehicles/systems. Disruptive energetic and 
propulsive materials will be investigated and tested to provide the Army with weapons with 
orders of magnitude enhancement in performance. 
This program will lead to unprecedented enhancements in lethality for the mounted and 
dismounted soldier against a spectrum of personnel and manned and unmanned ground and 
aerial combat systems. 
TPOC: Edward Kennedy, (410) 278-6055, edward.w.kennedy.civ@mail.mil. 
b. KCI-ScL/P-2: Desired Lethal Effects at Standoff Ranges in Constrained Environments 
The expected impact that this research will have on the operational Army’s capabilities in the 
2030 timeframe is significant enhancements in assured delivery of the lethal payload. Assured 
delivery implies that munitions will be brought to bear on the battlefield more precisely (lower 
collateral damage, reduced logistics burden), with more mission space (extended range, 
moving targets, defilade targets, smaller caliber weapons for lighter platforms), in a more 
complex environment (GPS denied, countermeasures) at low cost. 
Assured delivery of the lethal payload is underpinned by ballistic launch and flight sciences. 
Guided delivery is composed of two enabling technologies: maneuverability and navigation. 
Navigation provides information to understand the dynamic states relating the target and the 
munition and maneuverability is necessary to deliver the payload to the target. Goals are 
defined with these sciences and enabling technologies in mind. 
TPOC: Frank Fresconi, (410) 306-0794, frank.e.fresconi.civ@mail.mil. 
50
c. KCI-ScL/P-3: Soldier Lethality and Protection
Research will enhance our understanding of battlefield injury mechanisms, such as those due to
blast (e.g., injuries caused by shock waves, including accelerative loading and traumatic brain 
injury (TBI)), ballistic (e.g., impact of bullets, fragments and spall), and directed energy (e.g., 
injuries caused by laser and microwave sources). Research efforts in each of these mechanistic 
areas will yield scientific understanding and lead to new Army concepts. The long-term 
approach is to obtain a fundamental understanding of human injury and vulnerability deconvolved from the current Army solutions. 
The goal of this research is to provide a mechanism-based understanding of the human 
response to ballistic and blast insults that can lead to advances in protection sciences and
weapons development, thereby increasing Army capabilities. 
TPOC: Christopher Hoppel, (410) 278-8878, christopher.p.hoppel.civ@mail.mil. 
d. KCI-ScL/P-4: Adaptive and Cooperative Protection 
The operational threat environment that our troops face continues to grow in both capability 
and complexity. From near-peer adversaries to terrorist groups, the landscape is constantly 
evolving. The ability of our troops to exercise freedom of maneuver under these contested 
conditions will dictate mission success or failure. Developing a suite of technologies that 
provide the highest level of protection, in austere conditions, is the goal of this research. These 
efforts will result in transformational protection capabilities for Army platforms (ground, air, 
Soldier, and maritime) focused on increased levels of protection and the ability to rapidly adapt 
to new and unforeseen changes in threat environment at a reduced weight burden. 
This research effort combines technologies from across numerous disciplines to include 
technical intelligence, environmental sensing, dynamic threat characteristics, high speed signal 
processing, signature modification, and counter-measures in addition to conventional armor. 
All of these elements and combinations are linked through an intelligent agent to provide a 
real-time response decision that can proactively adapt. This methodology is capable of learning 
and applying new approaches as it evolves. An optimized combination of hard and soft 
protection techniques will provide a robust and redundant solution that will reduce inherent 
susceptibilities of current active protection systems to a variety of counter measures. It will 
also allow new techniques and responses to be deployed in real-time as dynamic software 
upgrades. This approach is seen as the only feasible means to maintain pace as the rate of threat 
evolution and proliferation is accelerated by globally available technologies such as digital 
design and additive manufacturing. The resulting advantages of this approach include; reduced 
weight when compared to current methodologies, increased reliability, ability to counter new 
threats in real-time and the ability to learn, adapt and improve. 
TPOC: Aaron Bard, (410) 278-4510, aaron.2.bard.civ@mail.mil. 
51
e. KCI-ScL/P-5: Disruptive Energetic Materials 
Improved models, concepts, and new energetic materials for propulsion are expected to provide 
enhanced range, speed of engagement, and maneuverability while maintaining weapons safety 
and surety. Additionally, game-changing energetic concepts with an order of magnitude more 
potential than conventional energetics are being pursued and are expected to enable new 
approaches to lethality, particularly when partnered with emerging accuracy and precision 
advances. 
These efforts will focus on the exploration and maturation of novel energetic and propulsive 
materials which are expected to provide revolutionary performance capabilities that are 
unachievable today. Research in this area seeks to understand very high energy density storage 
and release on desired timescales, methods to balance various parameters in energetic 
formulations, and prediction of formulation ingredient compatibility. 
TPOC: Jennifer Ciezak-Jenkins, (410) 278-6169, jennifer.a.ciezak-jenkins.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-ScL/P-1: Vehicle Protection from Kinetic Threats 
The ScL/P CCE in Vehicle Protection is a sustained effort to advance ballistic protection 
utilizing advanced materials, mechanisms, and manufacturing science to dramatically reduce 
overall vehicle weight while maintaining or improving protection against KE penetrators, 
Chemical Energy (CE) weapons and Underbody Blast (UB) threats. These CCE elements are 
closely coupled with the MR Campaign, emphasizing the cross-cutting nature, specifically in 
the areas of materials and manufacturing. 
For KE Protection, this CCE will develop new materials, ballistic technology, manufacturing 
technology, and adaptive technology to dramatically reduce overall vehicle weight while 
maintaining or improving protection against KE penetrators. For CE Protection, this CCE will 
develop new ballistic mechanisms; further develop existing ballistic mechanisms; explore new 
materials, hybrid adaptive techniques, and manufacturing technology to significantly improve 
vehicle protection against anticipated future threats; or dramatically reduce overall vehicle 
weight while maintaining protection against existing threats for a diverse range of CE 
penetrator warheads. In the area of UB Protection, this CCE will build and develop 
understanding of the driving mechanisms leading to, and mitigating, injury for the warfighter 
and vehicle platform; establish critical diagnostic capabilities to probe UB threat event 
phenomena; advance modeling capability for research, design, and analysis; and conceive 
innovative technologies for the mitigation of these threats. 
TPOC: Michael Keele, (410) 278-0215, michael.j.keele.civ@mail.mil. 
52
g. CCE-ScL/P-2: Terminal Ballistics and Blast Effects 
The CCE in Terminal Ballistics and Blast Effects is a sustained effort to advance the science 
base for mechanics and physics of weapon-target interactions. These technical areas include 
but are not limited to: shock physics and solid dynamics; fracture and failure of materials; 
interaction of solids with blast, electrical, and magnetic stimuli; detonation physics; and 
directed energy. To apply the greater understanding of fundamental sciences, which underpin 
weapon-target interaction, this CCE will develop coupled mesoscale poly-crystal model(s) with 
inter- and intra-granular mechanisms; develop and incorporate advanced diagnostic methods 
for relevant penetration experiments; develop and implement algorithms that provide electrical 
conductivities of low density gases using multiscale methods; apply formal Verification and 
Validation (V&V) methods and complete Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) assessment on 
tera/peta-scale simulation methods routinely used for protection technology development; 
develop and implement new analytical and computational methods for problems involving 
localization; assess coupling of structural and magnetic fields to protection relevant shock 
loading; implement robust methods for Modeling and Simulation (M&S) of energetic materials 
in response to shock stimuli; quantify relationships between structure, properties, and ballistic 
performance of armor ceramics. 
TPOC: Scott Kukuck, (410) 278-6026, scott.r.kukuck.civ@mail.mil.
6. HUMAN SCIENCES (HS) CAMPAIGN 
The HS Campaign focuses on identifying, creating, and transitioning scientific discoveries and 
technological innovations underlying Human Behavior; Human Capabilities Enhancement; and 
Human-System Integration that are critical to the U.S. Army’s future technological superiority. 
This campaign concentrates on high-risk and high-payoff transformational basic research; 
critically-focused, promising applied research; and selective advanced technology development 
that are expected to have revolutionary impacts on the Army’s warfighting capabilities. In 
addition to significantly improving the Army’s existing warfighting capabilities, it creates 
disruptive and game changing Soldier-centric technologies for the Army, while also preventing 
technological surprises from potential adversaries. 
The HS Campaign has developed three KCIs and four CCEs that are integrated to form a 
robust foundation to understand and overcome complex fundamental challenges. The campaign 
builds on fundamental pillars of science and engineering to conduct R&D in human behavior 
understanding; human performance augmentation; and manned and unmanned teaming. 
Discoveries and innovations made in this area will exert a significant impact on the Army of 
the future. 
53
a. KCI-HS-1: Robust Human and Machine Hybridization 
Strengthening the Reciprocal Coupling of Man and Machines integrates empirical and 
theoretical efforts to understand dynamic, complex human-system interactions and apply 
that knowledge towards the conceptualization of unique and novel human-system 
integration technologies. The research has three thrusts 1) examining closed-loop human 
adaptation to uncertainty with specific goals to develop descriptive, mechanistic, and 
predictive models of human short- and long-term adaptation within system contexts; 2) 
investigating robust brain computer interaction technologies with an initial goal to uncover 
methods and analytic capabilities that enable long-term, sustained performance while 
minimizing calibration and training requirements; and 3) conceiving of novel human-system 
interface technologies that increase the flow of information and meaning from intelligent 
agents system and Soldiers in complex socio-technical environments with an initial focus on 
novel multimodal interface technologies that enable greater understanding with less effort 
and training The critical challenge for human-system integration in future technologies will 
be the design of solutions that adapt their capabilities to maximize the human potential of 
the future Soldier. This effort seeks to identify general systems principles that operate across 
levels of analysis, providing a conceptual and modeling framework that captures human 
adaptation in ways that current models cannot. 
New methodological and analytical approaches will provide the core for technologies that 
revolutionize the direct interaction between Soldier and technology; increasing the bandwidth 
and effectiveness of information transfer, and shared understanding. 
TPOC: Jeremy Gaston, (410) 278-3644, jeremy.r.gaston.civ@mail.mil.
b. KCI-HS-2: Multi-Faceted Assessment of Soldier Variability 
The goal of this research is to provide the foundational elements for future Army systems to 
generate high-resolution, moment-to-moment, predictions of individual Soldier’s internal and 
external behavioral and performance variability in mixed agent team and social settings across 
training and operational environments through the use of multi-faceted sensing systems. This 
capability will provide the foundation for future Army systems to adapt to the individual 
Soldier’s states, behaviors, and intentions in real-time, which will provide our Soldier the most 
favorable conditions to train, engage in operations, and team with intelligent systems and 
personnel from the U.S. and other nations. Adaptive approaches will provide novel capabilities 
to decrease time-to-train, augment physical, cognitive, and social performance, and improve 
human-network interactions by providing robust predictions of Soldier state and intent to 
integrate with the network and are critical to the emergence of individualization of equipment 
and maximizing and sustaining both Soldier and unit peak performance during mission critical 
tasks. The research will focus on enabling high fidelity prediction that can account for 
continuous changes in Soldier’s physical, cognitive, and social states, such as stress, fatigue, 
task difficulty, trust, and situational awareness. The goal is to exploit the array of sensors and 
information streams that will be present in the operational environment of 2030 to predict 
54
Soldier variability with sufficient resolution and robustness to adapt systems in manners to 
directly enhance mission performance. The ultimate consumer of these technologies includes 
personnel across all three services both in the operational and medical domains. From U.S. 
Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) Pamphlet (PAM) 525-3-1: “Investments 
in maximizing human performance focus on achieving accelerated professional development; 
increasing cognitive and physical performance; developing Soldiers’ social and interpersonal 
capabilities; improving the overall health and stamina of personnel; and improving talent 
management. These efforts will improve the adaptability and endurance of Soldiers operating 
in a complex environment across the range of military operations.” This research is consistent 
with the following TRADOC Army Operating Concept for “Human performance” that 
improves the adaptability and endurance of Soldiers in a range of military operations. In 
addition, this research feeds several TRADOC Emerging Technology Focus areas: 
• “Grow Adaptive Army Leaders, Optimize Human Performance” by using continuous 
Soldier assessment. 
• “Maintain Overmatch” in the areas of protection, intelligence, and mission command. 
• “Continuously Upgrade, Protect, and Simplify the Network” by incorporating human 
state information to enable high degree of situational understanding and greater 
interoperability. 
Key research areas include: 
i. Approaches and algorithms to assess and predict non-linear human states that vary on 
multiple time scales across training and operational environments. 
ii. Techniques to leverage information about other individuals, sub-groups of individuals, 
and groups to improve prediction of an individual. 
iii. Techniques and fusion algorithms to interpret and predict non-stationary, human actions 
and behaviors in complex, dynamic, artifact-rich environments. 
This research will provide the foundational elements for future Army systems to generate high 
resolution, moment-to-moment, predictions of individual Soldier’s internal and external 
behavioral and performance dynamics in mixed-agent team and social settings across training 
and operational environments through the use of multi-faceted systems. 
TPOC: Amar Marathe, (410) 278-3638, amar.marathe.civ@mail.mil. 
c. KCI-HS-3: Training Effectiveness Research 
TRADOC/Army Capabilities Integration Center predicts (Strategic Trends Analysis, May 
2014) predicts that by 2030 “the speed of events will unfold that will require the Army to 
rapidly respond (measured in hours and days vs. weeks and months) with an operationally 
significant force to protect vital national interests. Increased speed of information requires 
55
more rapid and discriminate responses to crises. Future crises require increased multinational 
and whole-of-government approaches; however, partner and interagency capacities may not be 
sufficient. The environment will be increasingly transparent due to widespread information 
technology (IT). Mission command must be capable of handling big data. Future land forces 
will require the capability and capacity to gain situational understanding of complex megacity 
environments (physical, human, and information). As technology exponentially advances, the 
Army will need to replace systems more rapidly to equip the future force in an effective and 
timely manner. “This environment will require a real-time integration and adaptation to rapidly 
deployed technologies (personally worn exoskeletons, distributed unmanned systems, and 
cyberwarfare systems). To address these requirements, this research will demonstrate a 
ubiquitous, reconfigurable, fully adaptive, synthetic training environment that can quickly and 
accurately assess learning requirements, while reducing time required for Soldiers and their 
units to attain job domain competency; increasing the rate of knowledge and skill retention; 
increasing the rate of training transfer for mission readiness; increasing user acceptance; and 
reducing overall lifecycle sustainment costs. 
The main goals of this research are to: 1) discover and delineate the relationships among 
training environment fidelity, level of training immersion, and Soldier/collective performance; 
2) create models of efficient training evaluation for the Army driven by relationships between 
training technologies/methods and training effectiveness; 3) determine relationships between 
training technologies and transfer of acquired knowledge, skills, and abilities to operational 
contexts, 4) optimize training for autonomous, intelligent systems; 5) determine 
multidimensional measurement with feedback methods and strategies for individual / unit level 
simulation-based training; and 6) demonstrate automated individual to unit measurement and 
feedback tools and technologies. 
TPOC: Joan Johnston, (407) 384-3980, joan.h.johnston.civ@mail.mil. 
d. CCE-HS-1: Real World Behavior 
Understanding human behavior in the real world is a core enabler to the HS Campaign. The 
Real World Behavior CCE is dedicated to translating laboratory-based research findings to real 
world contexts and environments. This is especially critical considering the extreme conditions 
under which Soldiers operate including extreme time pressure; physical stress; cognitive load; 
interacting individually or as a team with intelligent systems and agents; technical training; and 
mission preparation. These extremes are difficult, if not impossible, to replicate in a laboratory. 
Materiel and methodologies to measure and predict human behavior in real world 
environments will enable enhancements of human capability in real time during training or 
tactical operations. Understanding behavior in the real world will enable optimized humansystem integration at scales from millisecond-level interactions that are dynamic and reciprocal 
to social-level interactions with robotic and intelligent systems or agents. Creating this 
understanding of behavior in the real world will accelerate transition of research findings to the 
field, thus speeding the delivery of technology, and ultimately, capability to the Army. 
56
Core research areas include: 
i. Real-world complexity in HS research: real-world perceptual and cognitive complexity 
in the laboratory as a function of the characteristics of simulations that give rise to the specific 
real world behaviors required for effective interaction across training, analytic, and operational 
domains for both individuals and teams. 
ii. Assessing behavior in the real world via reliable and valid biological, neurological, and 
behavioral sensors that provide stable, computationally tractable data that are descriptive, 
diagnostic, and differentiating across the full-range of physical, cognitive, social, and 
organizational behaviors for application of augmentation and human-system integration 
approaches on multiple time scales. 
Execution of the research in this CCE includes development of sensors that can reliably detect 
and capture nuanced actions, gross motor movements, and brain activity outside the laboratory. 
Fast and efficient computational approaches also must be in place to handle the massive 
amounts data that will be collected. Finally, the behavioral data must be correlated to the 
context and to the environment to enable a meaningful and differentiating association to 
higher-level and militarily-relevant effectiveness measures for training and operations. 
TPOC: Arwen DeConstanza, (410) 278-5856, arwen.h.decostanza.civ@mail.mil. 
e. CCE-HS-2: Augmentation 
Soldier cognition, perception, and physical performance can be augmented, aided, or protected 
by technology, or technology can impair Soldier performance if it is not designed, developed, 
and introduced in a way that is consistent with fundamental human capabilities and capacities. 
The goal is to augment Soldier capabilities such that they can surpass the baseline limits of 
performance. Through augmentation, a Soldier’s sensing and perceptual abilities can be greatly 
enhanced, thereby enabling the warfighter to sense and perceive the environment faster, more 
accurately, and more comprehensively. Augmenting cognitive capabilities that are matched to 
individual capabilities and tuned to the operational environment will enable greater resilience 
to the extremes of warfighting and support the attainment and sustainment of situation 
awareness and ultimately, agile, knowledgeable decision making. Innovations are also 
expected to enhance warfighter physical capabilities by balancing load, improving protection, 
and enhancing performance. 
Core research areas include: 
i. Perceptual Augmentation: the characterization and augmentation of the perceptual 
requirements of visual, auditory, and tactile signals in complex, dynamic, militarily-relevant 
environments derived from laboratory and field studies and forming the basis of guidance 
principles for the system development community. 
57
ii. Physical Augmentation: focus on ‘skin-out’ technology that may augment physical 
performance, and focus on advanced technology designed to increase the physical strength of 
the Soldier or increase their endurance. 
The objectives of this research are to understand and augment fundamental human capabilities 
across both short and long time scales. Under this CCE, research will be conducted to develop 
and assess the effects of augmentation technologies or approaches on Soldier performance 
through the evaluation of performance metrics and prediction of operational benefit for mission 
tasks ranging from marksmanship and load carriage to communications tasks, driving and 
navigating, and distributed decision making. Many augmentation technologies constitute a 
direct approach such as an exoskeleton, but other approaches may be via indirect means such 
as insertion or manipulation of imagery, symbology, or virtual characters by means of 
augmented reality techniques. 
TPOC: Jennifer Neugebauer, (410) 278-5926, jennifer.neugebauer.civ@mail.mil. 
f. CCE-HS-3: Training 
The research in this CCE is vital to the investigation, demonstration, and advancement of a 
broad range of simulation technologies to enhance Army training, and the instantiation of 
learning methods to enable effective, efficient, and adaptive/tailored instruction at the point of 
need. 
This CCE includes a broad-based program of fundamental research and advanced technology 
development to achieve significant advances in Soldier training and, ultimately, mission 
effectiveness. The development of future training technologies requires advances in learning 
sciences, HS, human-system interaction, computer science, engineering and M&S. Execution 
of the training technology program is intended to produce high-payoff achievements in 
learning, retention, and transfer of knowledge and skills from the training environment to the 
operational environment. The end goal is to discover and innovate powerful new tools, 
technologies, and methods that can accelerate learning, can be applied at the point of need at 
any time and are affordable. 
Core research areas include: 
i. Intelligent and adaptive tutoring systems: Intelligent and adaptive tutoring systems for 
individuals and units that promote learning of structured and unstructured militarily-relevant 
domains and contexts. The goal of this research is to enhance the realism, adaptability and 
decision-making skills of artificially-intelligent computer-based tutors and virtual humans to 
support one-to-one and one-to-many training experiences, where human support is limited, 
impractical, or completely unavailable. Technical challenges include: (1) the development and 
application of intelligent agents that can adapt in complex, (2) ill-defined domains; (3) 
understanding natural language in multi-sided conversations with trainees; (4) rapid authoring 
of effective computer-based tutors for individuals and teams, and (5) realistic virtual humans. 
58
TPOC: Ben Goldberg, (407) 384-3903, benjamin.s.goldberg.civ@mail.mil. 
ii. Authoring tools: Simulation technology relies on the underlying scenarios and content 
to deliver training objectives. In order to generate new scenarios, content, and simulations, 
authoring tools are needed. Ideally, these tools enable rapid, tailored, and effective training at
point-of-need. Key areas of research focus on authoring tools that are: (1) low-cost, (2) usable 
by non-technical personnel, and (3) capable of enhancing extensibility of training systems. 
TPOC: Matthew Hackett, (407) 384-5349, matthew.g.hackett.civ@mail.mil. 
iii. Immersive Learning: Immersive learning includes but is not limited to, games and 
virtual worlds for learning as well as immersive collaboration environments and traditional 
simulations (otherwise described as virtual environments). We seek advances in virtual 
environment research that improves the sense of presence and engagement in a virtual 
environment, improves the realism of a virtual environment and the ability to visualize 
information, improves the user’s experience and within the environment, and provides the 
ability for multiple users to edit the environment on-the-fly a user should be able to easily 
replicate a concept within their mind without platform limitations). Potential display 
environments include traditional screens, head-mounted displays, large-scale displays, and 
mobile devices. The user interface should not limit but rather should augment the virtual 
experience by providing realistic feedback from experiences within the virtual environment. 
The interface should provide subtle environmental effects to the user and improve the user’s 
ability to navigate within the environment through natural means. 
TPOC: Tami Griffith, (407) 384-3636, tamara.s.griffith.civ@mail.mil. 
iv. Virtual humans: Virtual humans allow for a highly realistic representation of a personto-person interaction, in a risk-free virtual environment. ARL seeks virtual human capabilities 
that are tailored and effective for supporting a full range of human-simulation interactions, to 
include one-on-one social interactions, and culture-specific interactions. Specific areas of 
interest include: (1) high-fidelity avatars; (2) advanced NLP; (3) conversational agents; (4) 
low-cost tools for creating and authoring virtual patients. 
TPOC: Roy Wall, (407) 384-3568, roy.f.wall2.civ@mail.mil. 
v. Live and Embedded Training (ET): ARL seeks research, development, and 
demonstration of live and ET technology to enhance training realism and effectiveness. Live 
training areas of interest include updated Non Line of Sight (NLOS) tactical engagement 
systems, MILES laser engagement systems, and improved indoor position, location, and 
tracking systems. ET is a capability designed into a Ground Combat System (GCS) and 
dismounted soldiers that enables the GCS and dismounted soldiers to provide necessary 
environmental and system feedback to train individuals, crews and units, and enhance 
operational readiness using the system’s operational equipment. Having a training capability 
integrated within the system’s operational equipment allows units to train anywhere a