I. OVERVIEW OF THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY
The U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) is the Department of the Army’s corporate laboratory 
and sole fundamental research laboratory. It is dedicated to scientific discovery, technological 
innovation, and the transition of knowledge products. ARL is situated within the U.S. Army 
Research, Development, and Engineering Command (RDECOM) – a U.S. Army Materiel 
Command (AMC) Major Subordinate Command (MSC). The ARL mission is to “Discover, 
innovate, and transition Science and Technology (S&T) to ensure dominant strategic land power”. 
To accomplish its mission, ARL executes fundamental research to address enduring S&T 
challenges identified by the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and 
Technology [ASA(ALT)] and by priorities articulated by the Chief of Staff of the Army (CSA). 
In addition, the laboratory conducts research and analysis in emerging fields that may realize 
novel or vastly improved Army capabilities into the deep future (2030 and beyond). 
For ease of reference and clarity, the ARL research funding opportunities are organized into two 
separate funding opportunity announcements: the ARL Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) and 
the Army Research Office (ARO) BAA. 
The ARL BAA identifies topics of interest to the ARL Directorates (Computational and 
Information Sciences Directorate, Human Research and Engineering Directorate, Sensors and 
Electron Devices Directorate, Survivability/Lethality Analysis Directorate, Vehicle and 
Technology Directorate, and Weapons and Materials Research Directorate). The Directorates 
focus on executing in-house research programs, with a significant emphasis on collaborative 
research with other organizations in an Open Campus setting (Open Campus opportunities are 
described in detail at http://www.arl.army.mil/www/default.cfm?page=2357). The Directorates 
fund a modest amount of extramural research in certain specific areas, and those areas are 
described in this BAA. 
The ARL BAA seeks proposals from institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, 
state and local governments, foreign organizations, foreign public entities, and for-profit 
organizations (i.e. large and small businesses) for research based on the following S&T 
campaigns: Computational Sciences, Materials Research, Sciences for Maneuver, Information 
Sciences, Sciences for Lethality and Protection, Human Sciences, and Assessment and Analysis. 
Further details are described in the ARL Technical Strategy and in the ARL S&T Campaigns 
located at www.arl.army.mil. These documents are subject to periodic refinements which may 
result in taxonomy inconsistencies. These inconsistencies should not affect the efficacy of the 
BAA to present a complete portfolio of essential ARL research. 
The ARL BAA generally conforms to the portfolio structured around mission, enemy, Key 
Campaign Initiatives (KCIs) and Core Campaign Enablers (CCEs). KCIs are substantive, longlived, primarily in-house technical programs focused on pursuing scientific discoveries, 
innovations, and knowledge product transitions that are expected to lead to greatly enhanced 
capabilities for the operational Army of 2030 and beyond. KCIs reflect a robust yet aggressive 
approach, and are delineated by near-term, mid-term, and long-term trajectories. CCEs are 
enduring technical thrusts dedicated to a fundamental understanding of new concepts and the 
2
maturation of foundational technologies and methodologies. The essence of the ARL technical 
portfolio is captured in the ARL Technical Strategy and by the ARL S&T Campaign Plans. 
Proposals are sought for cutting-edge innovative research that could produce discoveries with a 
significant impact to enable new and improved Army technologies and related operational 
capabilities and related technologies. The specific research areas and topics of interest described 
in this document should be viewed as suggestive, rather than limiting. 
Prospective applicants contemplating submission of a whitepaper or proposal are strongly 
encouraged to contact the appropriate Technical Point of Contact (TPOC). The TPOCs’ names, 
telephone numbers, and email addresses are listed immediately after each research area of interest. 
If requested by the TPOC, a whitepaper should be prepared in accordance with the instructions 
contained in this BAA. Upon receipt, a whitepaper will be evaluated and the applicant will be 
advised of the results. Applicants whose whitepapers receive a favorable evaluation may be 
encouraged to prepare a proposal in accordance with instructions contained in this BAA. The 
costs of whitepapers and/or proposals in response to this BAA are not considered an allowable 
direct charge to any award resulting from this BAA or any other award. It may be an allowable 
expense to the normal bid and proposal indirect costs specified in FAR 31.205-18. Proposals may 
be submitted at any time during the announcement period. 
The Army has a long history of advocating and supporting research at Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions (HBCU/MI). ARL welcomes proposals from 
HBCUs and MIs in full competition with all applicants who may submit proposals under this 
BAA. ARL also encourages the inclusion of HBCUs and/or MIs as part of a consortium proposal 
or as sub-recipients to prime recipients. 
In accordance with federal statutes, regulations, and Department of Defense (DoD) and Army 
policies, no person on grounds of race, color, age, sex, national origin, or disability shall be 
excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under 
any program or activity receiving financial assistance from the Army. 
Applicants submitting proposals are cautioned that only a Contracting or Grants Officer can 
obligate the Government to any legal instrument involving expenditure of Government funds. 
This BAA is also used to solicit research proposals for submission to the RDECOM International 
Technology Centers. 
All administrative inquiries regarding this BAA shall be submitted via email to: 
usarmy.rtp.aro.mbx.baa@mail.mil. Scientific and technical questions should be referred to the 
TPOCs shown following each research area of interest. Interested parties are encouraged to 
periodically check any of the following websites for updates and amendments to this BAA: 
www.grants.gov, www.fbo.gov, and the ARL website, www.arl.army.mil/. 
PHILIP PERCONTI 
Director, 
U.S. Army Research Laboratory 
3
(End of Section) 
A. Required Overview Content
1. Agency Name:
U.S. Army Research Laboratory 
Issuing Acquisition Office:
U.S. Army Contracting Command-Aberdeen Proving Ground, Research Triangle Park 
(ACCAPG-RTP) Division 
2. Research Opportunity Title:
ARL Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) for Basic and Applied Scientific Research for 01 
April 2017 – 31 March 2022 
3. Announcement Type: Amended Announcement 
4. Research Opportunity Number: W911NF-17-S-0003 
5. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) 
Number and Title:
12.431 – Basic Scientific Research 
6. Response Dates:
This BAA is a continuously open announcement valid throughout the period from the date of 
issuance through 31 March 2022, unless announced otherwise. This announcement succeeds 
ARL BAA W911NF-12-R-0011 (including all amendments) dated 15 May 2012. 
(End of Section) 
 
B. Additional Overview Information 
This BAA sets forth research areas of interest to the ARL. This BAA is issued under paragraph 
6.102(d)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which provides for the competitive 
selection of basic and applied research proposals, and 10 U.S.C. 2358, 10 U.S.C. 2371, and 10 
U.S.C. 2371b, which provide the authorities for issuing awards under this announcement for 
basic and applied research. The definitions of basic and applied research may be found at 32 
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 22.105. 
4
Proposals submitted in response to this BAA and selected for award are considered to be the 
result of full and open competition and in full compliance with the provision of Public Law 
98369, "The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984" and subsequent amendments. 
The DoD agencies involved in this program reserve the right to select for award all, some, or 
none of the proposals submitted in response to this announcement. Due to Government budget 
uncertainties, no specific dollars have been reserved for awards under this BAA. The 
participating DoD agencies will provide no funding for direct reimbursement of whitepaper or 
proposal development costs. 
Whitepapers and technical and cost proposals (or any other material) submitted in response to 
this BAA will not be returned to the applicant. Unless noted in an applicant's proposal to the 
contrary, unsuccessful proposals will be retained for six (6) months from declination and then 
properly destroyed. It is the policy of participating DoD agencies to treat all proposals as 
sensitive, competitive information and to disclose their contents only for the purposes of 
evaluation. 
An applicant may withdraw a proposal at any time before award by written notice or by email 
sent to the government point of contact identified in Section G of this BAA. 
(End of Section) 
5
II. DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE FUNDING OPPORTUNITY
A. Program Description
1. COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCES (CS) CAMPAIGN 
The CS Campaign focuses on advancing the fundamentals of predictive simulation sciences, 
data intensive sciences, computing sciences, and emerging computing architectures to 
transform the future of complex Army applications. Gains made through these underpinning 
multidisciplinary research efforts and exploiting emerging advanced computing systems will 
lead to scientific breakthroughs that are expected to have significant impact on Army materiel 
systems. Technologies resulting from this multidisciplinary research collaboratively with other 
ARL S&T campaign innovations will have a significant impact on Power Projection 
Superiority, Information Supremacy, Lethality and Protection Superiority, and Soldier 
Performance Augmentation for the Army of 2030. 
Represented in this BAA for the CS Campaign are one KCI and five CS-related topics that are 
integrated to form a robust advanced computing foundation to understand and overcome 
complex fundamental challenges simultaneous to improving approaches of importance to the 
Army, including weapon systems design; materials-by-design; information dominated and 
networked battle command applications; system-of-systems analyses; human performance 
modeling; platform maneuverability; and tactical supercomputers. The campaign heavily relies 
on ARL’s research expertise and facilities devoted to emerging advanced computing 
architectures, mobile High Performance Computing (HPC), multi-scale and interdisciplinary 
predictive simulation sciences, multi-dimensional distributed data analytics, and computing 
sciences. Discoveries and innovations made in this area will exert a significant impact on the 
Army of the future. There are natural synergies among the challenges facing ARL’s CS 
Campaign and ARL’s other S&T campaigns. Synergistic advances across all campaigns are 
expected to enable next generation scientific breakthroughs. 
a. KCI-CS-1: Tactical High Performance Computing (HPC) 
This KCI concentrates on understanding and exploiting the fundamental aspects of hardware 
and associated system software for emergent and future computing architectures for mobile, 
scientific, and data intensive applications. Computing systems include both mobile and 
fixed/virtual architectures optimized for fast communications, low power consumption, large 
hierarchical memory, novel and robust algorithms, high resiliency, and HPC networking. 
i. Tactical HPC integrates four primary research areas, including 1) advanced computing 
research to facilitate the efficient use of emerging architectures; new algorithm design and 
analysis approaches must be developed to boost the computing capacity of fixed and deployed 
devices; 2) research in provisioning these systems within a distributed computing architecture;
this work includes novel concepts to schedule computing tasks over friendly networked 
6
processors to limit network hop to appropriate resources; 3) dynamic binary translation to limit 
software re-writes and facilitate optimization in a runtime environment to achieve maximum 
performance; and 4) power- and architecture-aware computing for enhanced intelligence of 
provisioning systems to design systems that have greater awareness of their computing 
capacity and mission appropriateness. The critical, mobile ad hoc networks that will form the 
connections in tactical cloudlets to the large-scale databases and complex applications that will 
be performed by these resources make this research uniquely military and Army in nature. 
Numerous applications are envisioned for this system in the future and include artificial 
intelligence aids for decision making, processing large-scale datasets (text, video), and 
navigation systems for autonomous vehicles (HPC-enabled autonomous vehicles providing ondemand processing). 
ii. Emergent Computing Architectures research focuses on light weight architectures, large 
scale on-chip parallelism, and exascale performance to support petascale computing with 
multicore processors. These research efforts are also dedicated to developing novel algorithms 
and application formulations that facilitate the input and output rates required for petascale 
computing; and application development and performance optimization for next generation 
computing architectures. 
iii. Tactical Computing research is focused on better understanding algorithms and 
applications which facilitate seamless reach back to large-scale HPC systems and help to 
supply information to the Soldier at the tactical edge. Research in this area is dedicated to 
moving beyond optimizing devices in isolation, and embraces the challenges of crossenvironment co-design to address the needs of emerging tactical applications. 
iv. Next Generation Computing Architectures research is focused on non-traditional 
computing systems and envisioned to provide disruptive technologies for the Army. Cognitive
computing, neuro-synaptic computing, and DNA computing are some emerging concepts.
TPOC: Song Park, (410) 278-5444, song.j.park.civ@mail.mil 
Computational Sciences (CS) Related Topics: 
b. Real-Time, Scalable Data Analytics for the Army
This topic focuses on understanding and exploiting the fundamental aspects of large-scale, real 
time, multi-variate data analytics. Experiments, observations, and numerical simulations are on 
the verge of generating extreme quantities of data at ever increasing rates that must be 
processed for understanding and consumption. These massive amounts of data are distributed 
across disparate locations and pose a challenge in providing real-time analytics that support 
U.S. military operations. 
7
i. Brain-inspired computing research addresses the fundamental question of how our 
understanding of neuroscience, brain structure, and function inform the development of 
computing architectures to address Army research challenges. For instance, current models 
underlying existing machine learning are based on a 40 year old understanding of the structure 
and organization of animal brains. This research focuses on the design of neural network 
structures informed by our current understanding of the repeating micro-structure circuits 
neuroscience has discovered in brains. The benefits of this research may be the discovery of 
computing structures that are more powerful and learn more generally than the structures 
currently used. 
ii. Science of Large Data research is focused on pursuing theoretical developments and 
innovations to provide immersion in high dimensional data and very large-scale sets. These 
efforts are dedicated to discovering, evolving, and maturing analytic algorithms that efficiently 
scale to facilitate rapid analyses of massive data sets. The primary goal of this research area is 
to realize Army-relevant, high accuracy, predictive models based on massive data sets, which 
take advantage of emerging computing architectures. Additional areas of relevant research 
interest is maturation of methodologies to reduce data set dimensionality prior to modeling,
thereby greatly shortening computational time. 
iii. Computational Methods for Large-scale data analytics research is focused on 
identifying, evolving, and maturing innovative computational algorithms and methodologies to 
describe, model, simulate, solve, explore, and optimize control and coordination of 
computational systems impacted through physical events. Dynamic discrete event systems are 
data intensive and exist in many technological applications relevant to the Army, from 
communications to system-of-systems, to quantum sciences. 
iv. Data Intensive Computing Methods include the creation of scalable mathematical 
algorithms, predictive computational methods, real-time data analytics, model order reduction, 
human cognition based mathematical approaches, neuro- and biologically-inspired methods, 
science analyzing large-scale data from wearable electronics/technologies, large-scale data 
sensing/compression methodologies, large-scale visual analytics, live-virtual methods for 
training, data mining/learning mathematical algorithms for distributed heterogeneous 
computing systems. Computational scalable algorithmic research in cognitive behavior, 
artificial intelligence, human-machine interactions, and autonomous networks is also integral to 
this work. Novel methods to create systems capable of computing in memory and 
accommodating large amounts of unstructured data storage are critical to far-term success. 
v. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence research focuses on the development of 
new methods and algorithms, and how to optimally implement these approaches on emerging 
and specialized processors. The focus is to allow for novel discovery methods using machine 
learning and artificial intelligence approaches, and also optimized processing speeds to allow 
for satisfaction of fixed-time response requirements found in applications such as autonomous 
maneuver. 
8
TPOC: Manuel Vindiola, (410) 278-9151, manuel.m.vindiola.civ@mail.mil. 
c. Computational Modeling of Complex Systems
The subject topic concentrates on the fundamental aspects of CS to enable multi-disciplinary 
and multi-scale modeling and simulation (M&S) to predict, quantify, assess, and optimize the 
performance and response of complex systems, and system of systems, enabling rapid design, 
development, and transition particularly in cases where laboratory experimental approaches are 
costly and difficult to conduct, and/or are not feasible. Proposals are requested for the 
following areas: 
i. Computational Mathematics and Algorithms research encompasses a range of 
disciplines seeking computational methods to solve fundamental equations. Solutions may be 
sought for existing equations, or new equations may be developed expressly for the purpose of 
treating problems of interest to the Army. Problems in which the equations can be expressed in 
the form of partial differential equations stem from the basic science and engineering 
disciplines spanning characteristic length scales from sub-atomic to continuum, neural signals, 
stochastic variables, and design theory. Broad classes of problems may also require 
considerable specialization of solutions based on the platform used to obtain them. 
ii. Scientific Computing Research seeks understanding of phenomena that pertain to the 
scientific pursuits in and across traditional scientific disciplines that lack relevant 
computational capabilities. The problems are interdisciplinary, multi-physics with disparate 
intrinsic length and time scales. The equations, algorithms, and conceptual representation can 
change with respect to multi-dimensions (including space and time traversing scales or 
crossing the boundaries between scientific disciplines). Simulations bridging multi-scale 
domains are instrumental in discovering and revealing mechanisms and physics-based 
predictions (e.g., in materials, chemical and biological dispersion; micro-systems; biological 
ecosystems; and computer and human networks). High fidelity computations at the individual 
relevant scales, as well as research into mathematics and computational algorithms bridging 
these scales through innovative and scalable methodologies, including finite element methods, 
particle methods, and meshless methods applied to Computational Mechanics, Computational 
Fluid Dynamics (CFD), Computational Structural Mechanics (CSM), Computational 
Electromagnetics and Acoustics (CEA), and Computational Chemistry and Materials (CCM), 
are required. 
iii. Applied Computer Modeling and Analysis is focused on using predictive and reliable 
computational capabilities and tools to impact the design and deployment of critical Army 
systems and devices. CS-based enabling tools are required to perform large-scale system 
analysis from complex model development to detailed analytics. This includes innovative and 
scalable methods for Discrete Event Simulation (DES) that can be useful to a wide variety of 
performance and optimization problems in complex Army systems.